Hong Kong has banned three international airlines from flying specific routes into the city for two weeks, under a new law aimed at stopping the spread of Covid-19, the city’s government said on Friday. Flights by the three airlines were found to have one or more Covid-positive passengers aboard, according to the statement. They are: An incoming flight from Amsterdam operated by KLM Dutch Royal airlines on November 27. A flight from Kathmandu to Hong Kong operated by Nepal Airlines on December 1. Two flights to Hong Kong from Dubai via Bangkok operated by Emirates on December 2. Under strict new rules, the Hong Kong government is prohibiting the airlines from flying those routes into the city for 14 days. What triggered the bans? Passengers test positive: The ban is enforceable when an airline carries more than five Covid-19 positive passengers. The Nepal Airlines flight on December 1 had six passengers test positive on arrival. Consecutive flights: The ban is also enforceable on an airline which operates two consecutive flights into Hong Kong carrying Covid-19 positive passengers. This was the case with the Emirates flights, which brought four cases to Hong Kong on December 2 and three cases on December 3. Failure to comply with measures: The flight operated by KLM from Amsterdam to Hong Kong on November 27 only had one Covid-19 positive passenger, but was also added to the 14-day blacklist. The Hong Kong government said it reserves the right to block the route for 14 days if a passenger on board an aircraft carrying Covid-19 fails to comply with pandemic control measures. KLM’s Amsterdam-Hong Kong and Nepal Airlines’ Kathmandu route will be put out of action until December 17, while Emirates will be unable to fly into Hong Kong from Dubai or Bangkok until December 18, the Hong Kong government said. CNN has reached out to Emirates, KLM and Nepal Airlines for comment.
South Korean authorities have linked 28 new Covid-19 cases to a church in Daegu City. Contact tracers in the city said members of the church's choir had not worn face masks during services and members of the congregation had shared snacks. One confirmed infection was found from Youngshin Church on Thursday and the heath authority tested 158 close contacts of the confirmed case. Among those, 27 additional cases tested positive on Friday. Earlier this year, the Daegu branch of the Shincheonji religious group became one of the country’s biggest single clusters, linked to more than 5,200 cases.
South Korea reported 950 new coronavirus cases on Saturday -- the most infections in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic, the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) said in a press release. Of those, 928 confirmed cases are local infections, while 22 are imported. The Seoul Metropolitan Area accounts for the majority of the total with a record 669 new cases, the KDCA said. Meanwhile, three more cases have been linked to the church cluster in Daegu city, according to the local government’s press release on Saturday. There have now been 32 cases linked to the church cluster, where contact tracers said members of the choir didn't wear masks and parishioners shared snacks. Earlier this year, the Daegu branch of the Shincheonji religious group became one of the country’s biggest single clusters, linked to more than 5,200 cases. The country has recorded 41,736 cases in total so far. South Korea’s related death toll also increased by six on Saturday, bringing total fatalities to 578.
Jordan moved fast early on in the coronavirus pandemic with one of the strictest lockdowns in the world, making the country one of the few success stories in the fight against Covid-19. But over the past couple of months Jordan has seen a spike in the virus, and the kingdom is now one of the hardest hit countries in the region.
An experimental coronavirus vaccine developed by Chinese state-owned pharmaceutical giant Sinopharm has 86% efficacy, the United Arab Emirates Health Ministry said in a statement Wednesday. The Health Ministry said the results for the vaccine were based on interim analysis of the late-stage clinical trials which the UAE started in July, according to the statement which was carried by the state news agency. Though few details were provided, the statement marks the first publicly released information regarding the performance of the Chinese vaccine, developed by the China National Biotec Group (CNBG), a unit of Sinopharm. The UAE approved emergency use for frontline workers in September. "The analysis shows no serious safety concerns," the statement said, though it did not make clear whether individual participants suffered any specific side effects, or how many volunteers were given the vaccine or a placebo. The statement added that the "official registration" of the Covid-19 vaccine is "a major step towards combating the global pandemic." The statement did not elaborate on what official registration would entail.
The clinical trials included 31,000 volunteers across 125 nationalities in the UAE, the statement said. So far, almost 100,000 people across the Emirates have also received the vaccine as part of a voluntary program, Jamal Al Kaabi, a top UAE health official told CNN. UAE Vice President and Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum was pictured receiving the jab during trials in November. CNN has reached out to Sinopharm for more details. In this April 11, 2020, photo released by Xinhua News Agency, staff members check and clean equipments at a vaccine production plant of SinoPharm in Beijing.
China currently has five coronavirus candidates from four companies which have reached phase 3 clinical trials, the last and most important step of testing before regulatory approval is sought. Having largely eliminated the spread of coronavirus inside its borders, Chinese drugmakers had to look abroad for places to test the efficacy of their vaccines. Together, they have rolled out phase 3 trials in at least 16 countries. In exchange, many of the host countries have been promised early access to the successful vaccines -- and in some cases, the technology know-how to manufacture them locally. The UAE company in partnership with Sinopharm has previously said it hopes to produce between 75 and 100 million doses next year. In November, Sinopharm chairman Liu Jingzhen said that dozens of countries had requested to buy the company's vaccines. He did not name the countries or elaborate on the amount of doses they proposed, but he said CNBG was capable of producing more than one billion doses in 2021. "China not only has the political will (for its vaccine diplomacy), it also has the robust capacity to make that happen," Huang said. Compared with Pfizer and Moderna, most Chinese vaccines do not require freezing temperatures for storage, making transport and distribution much easier, especially in developing countries that lack cold storage capacities. The Pfizer vaccine has received approval for use in the United Kingdom, which began vaccinating people this week, while the Moderna jab is still in final stage trials in multiple countries. Both Pfizer and Moderna's vaccines use pieces of genetic material called messenger RNA (mRNA) to prompt the body to make synthetic pieces of the coronavirus and stimulate an immune response -- a new technology that has not been used in existing vaccines. But mRNA is vulnerable to degradation at room temperature. Moderna's vaccine has to be stored at -20 degree Celsius (-4 degrees Fahrenheit), or at refrigerator temperatures for up to 30 days, while the Pfizer vaccine has to be stored at an ultra-cold temperature of -75˚C (-103˚F), and used within five days once refrigerated at higher temperatures. Sinopharm, meanwhile, uses a longstanding approach that has proven effective in other vaccines, such as polio and flu shots. Their coronavirus vaccines employ an inactivated whole virus to prompt the body to develop immunity, and only need to be stored at standard refrigerator temperatures of 2˚C to 8˚C (36˚F to 46˚F). Other Chinese vaccines in production can be kept at similar temperatures.
Japan has reported a record number of new Covid-19 infections for the second straight day. Japan’s Ministry of Health announced it recorded 2,955 new Covid-19 cases and 37 related deaths for Thursday. That brings Japan’s total reported Covid-19 infections to 172,255 -- including 2,515 dead. The Ministry's data shows 543 patients are in intensive care, while a further 22,272 are receiving treatment in hospitals. The capital Tokyo posted its highest number of daily infections yet with an additional 602 cases. At least 59 patients remain in critical condition, with 1,826 more in hospital. Osaka counted 415 new cases. Osaka Gov. Yoshifumi Yoshimura said Thursday he was expecting the Self-Defense Forces' medical support team to be dispatched to local hospitals. Japan's medical expert advisory board was critical about the effectiveness of the government's prevention measures to fight the recent surge in cases. "It's hard to say that the measures taken so far have been effective," the chairman of the advisory board, Takaji Wakita, said in a press conference late Thursday.  "Overall, the measures were not successful to curb the new infection cases." Singapore will welcome travelers from Taiwan beginning December 18, according to a press release from Singapore's Civil Aviation Authority. Visitors from Taiwan can apply for a single-entry "Air Travel Pass" to enter Singapore on or after next Friday. Travelers must have stayed in Taiwan for 14 consecutive days prior to departure. Visitors will be required to take a Covid-19 PCR test upon arrival. If negative, they will be allowed to move freely throughout Singapore without serving a stay-at-home notice, the aviation authority added. "Taiwan has a comprehensive public health surveillance system and has displayed successful control over the spread of the Covid-19 virus. Over the past 28 days, Taiwan has zero local Covid-19 cases. The risk of importation from Taiwan is low," the press release said. South Korean authorities have linked 28 new Covid-19 cases to a church in Daegu City. Contact tracers in the city said members of the church's choir had not worn face masks during services and members of the congregation had shared snacks. One confirmed infection was found from Youngshin Church on Thursday and the heath authority tested 158 close contacts of the confirmed case. Among those, 27 additional cases tested positive on Friday. Earlier this year, the Daegu branch of the Shincheonji religious group became one of the country’s biggest single clusters, linked to more than 5,200 cases. Hong Kong has banned three international airlines from flying specific routes into the city for two weeks, under a new law aimed at stopping the spread of Covid-19, the city’s government said on Friday. Flights by the three airlines were found to have one or more Covid-positive passengers aboard, according to the statement. They are: An incoming flight from Amsterdam operated by KLM Dutch Royal airlines on November 27. A flight from Kathmandu to Hong Kong operated by Nepal Airlines on December 1. Two flights to Hong Kong from Dubai via Bangkok operated by Emirates on December 2. Under strict new rules, the Hong Kong government is prohibiting the airlines from flying those routes into the city for 14 days. What triggered the bans? Passengers test positive: The ban is enforceable when an airline carries more than five Covid-19 positive passengers. The Nepal Airlines flight on December 1 had six passengers test positive on arrival. Consecutive flights: The ban is also enforceable on an airline which operates two consecutive flights into Hong Kong carrying Covid-19 positive passengers. This was the case with the Emirates flights, which brought four cases to Hong Kong on December 2 and three cases on December 3. Failure to comply with measures: The flight operated by KLM from Amsterdam to Hong Kong on November 27 only had one Covid-19 positive passenger, but was also added to the 14-day blacklist. The Hong Kong government said it reserves the right to block the route for 14 days if a passenger on board an aircraft carrying Covid-19 fails to comply with pandemic control measures. KLM’s Amsterdam-Hong Kong and Nepal Airlines’ Kathmandu route will be put out of action until December 17, while Emirates will be unable to fly into Hong Kong from Dubai or Bangkok until December 18, the Hong Kong government said. CNN has reached out to Emirates, KLM and Nepal Airlines for comment.
Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam on Friday said her government has signed advanced purchase agreements for the Sinovac and BioNTech-Pfizer Covid-19 vaccines. Based on a two-dose regime, the city intends to procure 7.5 million doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine, and 7.5 million doses of the Chinese Sinovac vaccine. Lam told the Friday press conference vaccines would be provided free to Hong Kong’s 7.5 million strong population. Lam said the government was hoping to reach a third agreement with AstraZeneca and is looking for a fourth supplier. “The first million are expected to arrive in Hong Kong in January next year, earliest,” Lam said of the Sinovac vaccine, which only requires one dose. "The other one is in Germany, BioNtech & Pfizer, and this vaccine uses another different another technology that is mRNA, again 7.5 million doses will be available. The first batch of 1 million doses will arrive in Hong Kong, in the first quarter next year, earliest”, Lam said. Elderly citizens, sufferers of chronic illnesses and care workers from nursing homes will be first to receive the vaccine, Lam said. Hong Kong diagnosed 86 new Covid-19 cases in the city on Thursday, five of which are imported and 37 are untraceable.
United States military personnel on the Japanese island of Okinawa are on virtual lockdown after almost 100 cases of coronavirus have emerged on several US Marine Corps bases there. The lockdown order, which was issued Saturday morning, bans almost all off-base movement by the tens of thousands of US military personnel on the bases unless approved by an officer with the rank of lieutenant colonel or above. The order includes the vital Kadena Air Base, which bills itself the hub of US air power in the Pacific, and comes after US admirals last week touted the "extraordinary measures" the Navy had taken to restore US military readiness in the region in the face of the worsening pandemic. The Okinawa prefectural governor's office said 94 cases of Covid-19 have been diagnosed among the personnel at the US Marines Corps' Air Station Futenma, Camp Hansen and Camp Kinza as of Monday afternoon. Maj. Kenneth Kunze, communications strategy and operations officer for the US Marines in Okinawa, confirmed the numbers provided to the Okinawa government were accurate and said contact tracing was underway on the island to see if there were any more cases. Hundreds of Marines and their family members were being tested, he said. A statement from US Air Force Brig. Gen. Joel Carey, the commander of Kadena Air Base, on Friday said "multiple new positive cases" had emerged on US military facilities on the island as well as three cases among the local population. "The US cases have primarily been Marines assigned to MCAS Futenma and Camp Hansen, and have been a mix of both travel related and those with origins we've yet to be able to identify indicating the potential of a reemergence of community spread," Carey's statement posted on the base's website said. Kunze said any travel-related cases would have come through Kadena on a flight from Seattle, which also stops at US military bases in Yokota and Iwakuni, Japan. But as of Monday afternoon Japan time, no Covid-19 cases had been reported on Kadena. The recent infections of Marine personnel are the first the service has seen on Okinawa since the outbreak of the virus earlier this year. US Marine Corps bases were put under Health Protection Condition Charlie, which, according to a Marine website, bans any off-base activity except traveling to and from the bases to residences. Any other travel requires the approval of a senior officer. US Marine personnel and their families, including US civilian contractors, are not permitted to visit any off-base establishments, use public transportation, or even exercise outdoors, under Condition Charlie. Personnel may also not take any leave or vacation time. The Kadena Air Base Facebook page said it also was under Health Protection Condition Charlie, but the Air Force restrictions were slightly less stringent than those issued by the Marines, allowing visits to off-base grocery stores, pharmacies and food drive-thrus. Despite the restrictions, Okinawa government officials expressed frustration with the US forces. In a statement, Prefectural Gov. Denny Tamaki said the US should not be allowing troops to come to Okinawa from bases in the US and elsewhere during the pandemic. The governor's office said US military personnel arriving on the island were being housed in hotels in the Chatan district of the island, near Kadena Air Base because on-base facilities were filled with US personnel in Covid-19 isolation. Kunze said Monday that all Covid-19 cases were in isolation in US Marine barracks on the island. Additionally, all Marines, their family members and US civilian workers arriving on the island face 16 days in quarantine, he said. Tamaki told public broadcaster NHK News that the surge in US cases comes after the island had done well preventing coronavirus cases. "I am shocked. It is extremely regrettable that a large number of cases are occurring in a short period of time at a time when all Okinawans are trying so hard to prevent the infection from spreading," he said. Okinawa had zero new cases between May 1 and July 7. Total number as of July 10 is 145 infections, which includes seven deaths. NHK reported Saturday that three visitors to Okinawa from the Tokyo area had tested positive for Covid-19 since last Thursday. The Japanese capital and the country as a whole have seen surging cases of Covid-19 for the past week. On Sunday, 411 new cases were reported across the country, 206 of those in Tokyo, the fourth day in a row it had seen more than 200 new cases. The new cases among US military members come as the virus is also spreading rapidly in the United States. More than half of the country's 50 states are dealing with increased rates of new cases compared to a week ago. One state, Florida, reported 15,299 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest number of new cases in a single day by any state since the coronavirus pandemic began. But in the Pacific, the US military has said it has been successful in combating the virus, which left the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt crippled for weeks in the spring when the virus struck more than 1,000 members of its crew. Last week, however, two of its sister ships, the USS Ronald Reagan and USS Nimitz, completed rare dual-carrier exercises in the South China Sea. The admirals in charge of those exercises said the Navy had gone to "extraordinary measure" to achieve a high level of readiness. "The entire team underway, everyone on board, is required to wear a mask," Rear Adm. George Wikoff, commander of the Reagan carrier task force, said of the 12,000 personnel in the exercises.. The Navy has also spaced out mealtimes, instituted social distancing and brought aboard specialists including microbiologists and extra health personnel, said Wikoff. But a worsening Covid-19 situation on Okinawa could set back US efforts in the Pacific. Kadena bills itself Keystone of the Pacific. Almost 18,000 Americans work on the base, which hosts US Air Force fighter jets, US Navy reconnaissance planes and its a major hub for US aircraft movement throughout the region, including frequent operations over the South China Sea. Meanwhile Monday, US Forces Korea reported Monday that 11 US service members arriving in South Korea had tested positive for Covid-19. All personnel entering South Korea are tested and quarantined for 14 days, USFK said in a tweet.
The Middle East is projected to be one of the next big growth areas for e-commerce, projected to be worth nearly $50 billion by 2022. Now, Covid-19 is accelerating the pace of change. Farmbox, a Dubai-based food delivery service, is one startup that has seen its orders jump nearly tenfold as more customers shop online.
Here's a look at the 2020 Summer Olympics to be held in Tokyo, postponed until 2021 due to the coronavirus outbreak. The games are scheduled to take place from July 23 to August 8, 2021. The Paralympics are scheduled to take place August 24 to September 5, 2021. This is the second time the Olympics will be held in Tokyo, which previously hosted the Games in 1964. Tokyo led an unsuccessful bid to host the 2016 Olympics. The 1972 and 1998 Winter Games were also hosted by Japan, in Sapporo and Nagano, respectively. Venues and Sports Maps Invitations to the games were sent to countries, states and territories represented by 206 National Olympic Committees and to the Refugee Olympic Team. The Japanese government originally selected British-Iraqi architect Zaha Hadid to design Tokyo's new National Stadium, though the project was later given to architect Kengo Kuma following high-profile criticisms and spiraling costs. Kuma sourced more than 70,000 cubic feet of timber from each of the country's 47 prefectures for the stadium. "We wanted to create something that captures the people's thoughts on the environment or the Earth at the time," Kuma told CNN in an interview in June 2019. Athletes competing in the games will sleep on bed frames made of cardboard and mattresses made of plastic to reduce the event's carbon footprint, according to organizers. Timeline May 23, 2012 - Istanbul, Madrid and Tokyo are announced as the three finalists to host the 2020 Olympics. September 7, 2013 - The winning city, Tokyo, is announced in Buenos Aires. May 7, 2014 - NBC agrees to pay $7.7 billion to broadcast the Olympics through the 2032 Summer Games. The 2032 Olympics will be the 23rd to be broadcast by the network. August 3, 2016 - The International Olympic Committee (IOC) adds five new sports to the games: skateboarding, karate, surfing, sports climbing and baseball/softball. April 2017-March 2019 - The Tokyo 2020 Organizing Committee launches its "Everyone's Medal" campaign, calling on citizens to donate devices that could be stripped of their metals for both the Olympics and Paralympics. More than 6 million used cellphones, or around 79,000 tons of used cellphones and other small electronic devices, are collected. February 28, 2018 - The mascots for the Olympic and Paralympic games are announced. According to organizers, the mascots are futuristic superhero creatures with "opposite personalities" but who "respect each other and are very good friends." July 21, 2018 - The names of the Olympic and Paralympic mascots are revealed. Miraitowa, pronounced "miray-towa," is the blue and white checked Olympic mascot. The name combines the Japanese words mirai, meaning future, and towa, meaning eternity. Someity, pronounced "soh-may-tee," is the pink and white Paralympics mascot. Someity is named after the cherry blossom variety Someiyoshino, and the English phrase "so mighty." August 7, 2018 - The Tokyo 2020 Olympic committee says it will use facial recognition to improve safety and make security lines more efficient for participants -- a priority because high temperatures are expected. All accredited individuals, including athletes, officials, staff and press, will have their facial images stored in a database and matched upon entry. NEC Corporation is providing the software. July 24, 2019 - The newly designed medals are presented. They have a pebble-like appearance and measure 8.5 centimeters in diameter. All medals will be produced from gold, silver and bronze (in this case, copper and zinc) stripped from donated cellphones and other electronics. December 4, 2019 - According to a Greenpeace report, high-level radiation hot spots can be detected at a sports complex in Japan's northeastern Fukushima prefecture, where the Olympics torch relay will begin on March 26, 2020. In response to the report, Japan's environment ministry says it conducted further decontamination. Radiation monitoring at the stadium will also be enhanced. December 15, 2019 - The stadium that will host the opening and closing ceremonies at the Olympics and Paralympics is inaugurated. The 68,000-seat stadium, designed by architect Kengo Kuma, cost 157 billion yen ($1.4 billion). January 10, 2020 - Three-page guidelines handed out by the IOC warn athletes not to protest on the field, on the medal stand, in the Olympic Village or during the Opening or Closing Ceremonies. The new guide also covers political signs and armbands. March 12, 2020 - The lighting ceremony takes place in Olympia, Greece. Due to fear of coronavirus exposure, the audience is kept small. The relay through the country is suspended the next day because large crowds cause the same concern. The Torch Relay is scheduled to travel to all 47 prefectures in Japan over 121 days beginning March 26, 2020. March 24, 2020 - Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the IOC agree to postpone the Olympics until 2021. It is also announced that the event will still be dubbed Tokyo 2020 despite the postponement. March 30, 2020 - The IOC announces that the Tokyo Olympics will be held from July 23 to August 8 in 2021. December 4, 2020 - The organizing committee says the postponed games are set to cost $2.7 billion more than initially projected, taking the total cost of the event to $15.3 billion.
The only sign you're entering the intensive care unit of the Shohadaye Tajrish Hospital in Tehran is turning a corner. Outside in the corridor, wrapped in a black body bag, is the body of a young woman who died minutes earlier. Inside, five patients are being valiantly kept alive, courtesy of a patchwork of equipment accrued over painful months that have seen over 750 deaths here. And with an enormous amount of commitment and ingenuity. "The most worrying thing for a doctor is to know there are medicines (plentifully) available in some parts of the world but not here," said Dr. Alireza Fatemi. This how the agony of coronavirus differs in Iran: nowhere else in the world faces this monster of a virus with the added scourge of President Donald Trump's "maximum pressure" sanctions, which Iranian officials and doctors insist have hampered their Covid-19 fight. Retired teacher Khalif Farahani struggles to speak, but his emotions pierce the breathlessness of the virus's impact on his lungs. "Sanctions, it is cruelty (from) America", he said. He caught the virus on a park excursion, he added, but even in this condition is "better than before." The tube in his nose is a little worn, in keeping with so much of the equipment in the ward: painstakingly tended, but unmistakably the tools of a country cut off from the flourish in medicine, racing around the globe in the pandemic. The ICU is not sealed off from the rest of the ward. Days here vary, said the doctors. Two dead is a good day, four average, and the worst they've had killed nine. Iran has passed two grim milestones in the last week: 50,000 dead on Saturday and a million recorded cases last week since the pandemic began. Numbers that tell part of a story, limited in its scope by the tests Iran is able to muster daily, thought to number about 60,000. Yet even as their knowledge of home-generated solutions grow, this November was the cruelest month, with an official death toll of 10,000. The hospital's dean, Reza Jalali Khoshnoud, blames the third spike, as Iranians now call it, on the need to keep the damaged economy afloat. "People had to go to work", he said. "The risky businesses were allowed (to stay open), then after a few months we got a spike. The climax has been in the past month." The toll has been heaviest, month in, month out, on the staff. An estimated 300 medical workers have died nationwide since the pandemic began, Khoshnoud said. And those who survive carry the burden of what they've seen. "The most bitter day was when I had a 47-year-old mother of three here," said Aslan Amiri, the ICU's chief nurse. "She didn't respond to treatment. When she died that was the most terrible, bitter day for me. I could not save her. It stuck in my memory." The loss of younger parents also haunts another nurse, Elham Moazami. "I came from the other wards to help with Covid," she said. "We tried our best to save a person with two young kids, aged just 32. But we failed. That was the most bitter day for all the staff here." Nurse Mitra Agharazi said: "Stress is part and parcel of nursing but (the) pandemic is something different -- ten times greater. We are worried all the time we may contract the disease ourselves or give it to our friends or family. It is a heavy burden on our shoulders." Resistance -- a word frequently invoked by Iran's leadership -- is the watchword here. Fatemi said domestic production of PPE and medicine has seen them through, yet sanctions mean they are always on the edge of a shortage. "We are now much better off than in the early months ... If there were no sanctions, we could have backups of medicine and no worries about facing another wave of the pandemic." Though the sanctions technically exempt food and medical supplies, human rights reports from Iran have repeatedly emphasized the impact of sectoral sanctions on gaining access to essential medicines and medical equipment, including respirators and protective equipment for health-care workers. And experts say US sanctions on Iran are indeed hurting its response to the pandemic. "Iran is hampered by sanctions that prevent it from accessing foreign reserves, foreign currency abroad to purchase the necessary medical equipment -- masks, anything that it might need to take care of its population," Sanam Vakil, an Iran expert with the UK think tank Chatham House, told CNN earlier this year. The spaces for those who lose the fight are an hour across town. The uniform, tidy graves of the Behest-e-Zahra cemetery are swallowed in the reverberating and haunting chants of imams working overtime to pray for the endless stream of shrouded corpses. The bodies come on the shoulders of family members, and two of the stories this afternoon are similar: in their late fifties, with diabetes, struck down with Covid-19. The scale of the task ahead of the gravediggers is chilling. One kneels, with a tape measure, allocating each space, to ensure both economy and scale. The prayers from neighboring ceremonies overlap, and seem to loop in grief, almost drowning out the singular scream of a woman that would normally stop a crowd dead in its tracks. None of the funeral parties want to talk; many are overwhelmed. The walls of the tombs are lined carefully with clay. Petals are laid on the floor. The ceremony is both meticulous and paced fast enough to fit the sheer volume of death in. The dozen imams have reported saying prayers 30 times a day. It is a startling scene, both in volume and pace, a stark reminder of the sanctions invoked without hesitation in Washington, yet that Iranians say have made a grief felt globally so much more savage here.
South Korea and Japan may have coronavirus numbers that would be the envy of much of Europe and the United States, but they aren't taking any chances as winter brings with it a dangerous spike in infections. Along with tighter restrictions, both east Asian countries have deployed their respective militaries to assist medical staff and help with contact tracing. In Japan, nurses from the Self-Defense Forces will assist local hospitals in Osaka and Hokkaido prefectures, as the country reported 1,518 new cases Monday -- bringing its total to 164,641, including more than 2,395 deaths. In South Korea, the military and police will help with contact tracing efforts, while testing centers will also extend their hours into the night and on weekends to encourage testing in the greater Seoul area. The country reported 594 cases from Monday -- all but 28 of which were local transmissions -- bringing its total caseload to 38,755, including 552 deaths. Elsewhere in the region, Hong Kong is also experiencing a fourth wave of cases, forcing the cancellation of a planned travel bubble with Singapore as new restrictions are put in place. Taiwan, which went 200 days without a local transmission, also had a handful of new cases, along with a surge of imported infections, though those patients are all being quarantined. Along with Australia and New Zealand, east Asian countries have been among the best at responding to coronavirus, tightening and relaxing restrictions as case numbers have allowed -- thus enabling life to return to relative normality for extended periods. The world will now be watching closely as the region faces a winter surge that is likely to challenge the early stages of the pandemic for severity and misery. Australia and New Zealand, in the southern hemisphere, are about to enter summer. At a briefing Monday, a South Korean health official warned the country was facing its "biggest crisis" since the beginning of the pandemic, adding that daily cases could top 750 this week and urging people to follow the tighter restrictions for next three weeks. Last week, Japan recorded its highest-ever number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care, a situation Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga acknowledged was becoming "extremely alarming" as hospitals and medical staff faced being overwhelmed. Winter was always expected to bring a spike in cases, as cold weather sends people indoors to poorly ventilated spaces -- conditions likely to make coronavirus spread more easily. Cases could also be harder to track and trace as symptoms are similar to those of winter respiratory bugs, while governments may find it harder to enact lockdown measures or other restrictions on already quarantine-fatigued populations. Japanese regulations have called for greater ventilation, but this is a hard ask in parts of the country that experience freezing temperatures throughout winter, a situation shared by South Korea. Asahikawa, in Japan's northern Hokkaido prefecture, has seen a major spike in cases in recent days -- the city also holds the record for the country's coldest-ever temperature, of minus 41 degrees Celsius (minus 41.8 degrees Fahrenheit) in 1902, and sees average temperatures of minus 5 degrees Celsius (23 degrees Fahrenheit) to minus 10 degrees Celsius (14 degrees Fahrenheit) for much of winter. There is also a sense of coronavirus fatigue in much of Asia, which -- while avoiding the type of stringent lockdowns seen in parts of Europe, the US, and Australia -- has also experienced several more months of dealing with precautions and restrictions than other parts of the world. This makes encouraging people to continue to be vigilant, during a period when conditions already make infection easier, more of a struggle. "Please do not get used to the coronavirus," Japan Medical Association President Toshio Nakagawa said at a briefing last month, as cases started to rise in that country. "Please do not underestimate the coronavirus." But amid this and similar warnings, not all measures are being taken to contain the virus, perhaps a sign that governments fear people may only be able to go so far. Japan, for example, has scaled back a domestic travel subsidy campaign -- Go To Travel -- but is not scrapping or pausing the scheme, even amid the risk of local infections. Until now, this type of middle-way approach -- not too strict, not too soft -- has largely worked for Japan and other countries in east Asia. Severe lockdowns, meanwhile, failed to have the desired effect in much of Europe, with cases soon rebounding as conditions are relaxed and people do not vigilantly follow basic measures like mask-wearing and social distancing. With Europe and the US facing a deadly and miserable winter -- albeit with the slight hope of vaccine rollouts in the near future -- eyes will be on whether Asia continues to show a more effective way of managing the pandemic.
Half a million students are sitting South Korea's notoriously difficult National College Entrance Exam on Thursday, a marathon day of tests that is the country's answer to the SATs and can determine a teenager's future. The tests are so significant that, in normal years, the country rolls out extreme measures to support students -- office hours are changed to clear roads to avoid students getting stuck in traffic and flights are rescheduled to prevent the sound of plane engines disrupting the English listening test. But this year, even greater planning has been required, as South Korea attempts to hold the exams while keeping teenagers safe from coronavirus. Students will have their temperature checked before entering the testing facilities and will need to wear masks throughout the exam. Arrangements were even made for 3,775 students to take the tests from quarantine, and for the 35 students who tested positive for Covid-19 as of Tuesday to sit the exam from a hospital bed. The exams help decide whether students will make it into the most prestigious colleges and what career path they can take -- some options, such as medicine, will be shut off to students who don't get a high-enough score. "Every citizen understands the exam to be a major national event," Education Minister Yoo Eun-hae told CNN in an exclusive interview ahead of the test. South Korea has been relatively successful at controlling its Covid-19 outbreak, with more than 35,000 reported cases and 529 deaths. But as students prepared for the biggest test of their high-school career, the country has been hit by a third wave of cases, particularly in metropolitan Seoul, where half the country's population lives. A week before the exam, Yoo ordered high schools across the country to shut and switch to online classes. What it's like doing an exam during coronavirus That South Korea can hold its college placement tests at all is remarkable -- and is down to careful planning by authorities. Other countries have been forced to cancel or postpone exams due to coronavirus -- the US College Board, for instance, canceled the SATs that were due to be held in May, citing student safety. The United Kingdom canceled A-levels, which determine university entrance, and students received the grades their teachers predicted for them. But it's hardly exam season as usual in South Korea. Normally, nervous parents cheer their children on as they enter the testing centers, but this year, Seoul authorities told parents to refrain from cheering or waiting outside the school gate on the day of the exam. Anyone who showed sign of illness was ordered to sit the test in a separate room where invigilators wore full hazmat suits. Students were separated by dividers as they sat their test, and the government established ventilation guidelines for exam rooms. Students were prevented from using cafeteria or waiting halls to minimize contact. Public health clinics performed tests until 10 p.m. the day before the exam, to encourage students to get diagnosed if they had symptoms. Covid tests for students were prioritized. One high school teacher in Daejeon, a city south of Seoul, tested positive around 9.30 p.m. Wednesday. After one of his close contacts tested positive, dozens of exam workers were substituted for reserve staff. For students taking the exam, those measures made an already difficult exam more stressful. Seoul student Hwang Yoon-jae, who was taking the exam for a second time after graduating the year before, said he had been studying close to 15 hours a day, including over weekends, for months. "I'm more worried (this year) because we need to take the exam in much worse condition," he said. "We need to wear masks, and there is a plastic divider on the desk." What is the risk? Authorities are taking additional measures for a simple reason: they are desperate to prevent an exam-related outbreak. Unlike earlier outbreaks, the third wave has been spreading among younger people, according to Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. And after Thursday's exam, some students will travel across the country to sit additional exams held by colleges. "While we had thoroughly prepared, I'm afraid of the rare scenario where an undetected patient is found among the exam takers and begin a community spread," Education Minister Yoo said. "We are doing all we can to prevent such a scenario." But for people, the risk was too great. In recent weeks, some 6,000 people signed an online petition calling for the exam to be postponed by two weeks. The petition said holding the exam now was "like throwing students into a pit of fire" and questioned whether schooling is more important than children's health. In online communities where high school seniors share exam tips, many students said they were worried that if they caught Covid during the exam they could be forced to quarantine, meaning they might miss the additional college exams the following week. But President Moon Jae-in's government was adamant that the exam must proceed. "If we safely hold the exam in such difficult times without excluding those infected and quarantined, the superiority of K-quarantine will shine even brighter," Moon said in a tweet this week. Yoo also pointed out that the exam had already been postponed by two weeks once before. She also said that South Korea had successfully held a general election in April during coronavirus, an election that saw Moon's party reelected in a landslide -- and attracted the highest turnout in nearly 30 years. Although Na Yeong-seo, a high school senior in the satellite city outside of Seoul, said the mask she had to wear and large divider installed on her desk would make it difficult to concentrate, she was more worried about the uncertainty brought by the pandemic, given the test has already been pushed back once. "To be honest, I would like to finish the exam as quickly as possible. Of course, it will be dangerous," she said. "The continuous delay and the following endless studying would be very hard for me. I want it to end soon." Despite the Covid-19 risk, Hwang, the Seoul student, said he wasn't that concerned about being infected. "I think any student would be more concerned about getting a bad result on the exam than catching Covid," he said.
Inside a gray warehouse at the Shenzhen International Airport in southern China, a row of white chambers sits in a cordoned-off corner, each fitted with a display screen showing the customized temperature inside. A security worker in face mask, surgical gown and rubber gloves stands guard. Anyone entering this part of the warehouse has to either complete two weeks of quarantine or wear a head-to-toe hazmat suit. These climate-controlled rooms, totaling an area of 350 square meters (3,767 square feet), are soon to be filled by rows and rows of Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccines -- after they receive approval from the country's drug regulators. From there, they'll be loaded onto temperature-controlled compartments of cargo jets and flown to continents around the world. In the coming months, China will be sending hundreds of millions of doses of coronavirus vaccines to countries that have conducted last-stage trials for its leading candidates. Chinese leaders have also promised a growing list of developing countries priority access to its successful vaccines. This global campaign presents China an opportunity to repair its image, which was damaged for its initial mishandling of the coronavirus outbreak -- rather than being blamed for the primary spread of the virus it can potentially be esteemed for helping to bring an end to the pandemic. The vaccines can also be used by Beijing as "an instrument for foreign policy to promote soft power and project international influence," said Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the Washington-based Council on Foreign Relations. Earlier in the pandemic, China's efforts to curry favor by donating masks and other supplies to countries hit hard by the virus were tarnished by reports of poor quality supplies, and accusations that Beijing was launching a disinformation campaign to change the coronavirus narrative. Beijing's vaccine diplomacy, Huang said, could give it another chance. China currently has five coronavirus candidates from four companies which have reached phase 3 clinical trials, the last and most important step of testing before regulatory approval is sought. Having largely eliminated the coronavirus inside its borders, Chinese drugmakers had to look abroad for places to test the efficacy of their vaccines. Together, they have rolled out phase 3 trials in at least 16 countries. In exchange, many of the host countries have been promised early access to the successful vaccines -- and in some cases, the technology know-how to manufacture them locally. Sinovac Biotech, a Nasdaq-listed drugmaker based in Beijing, has signed deals to provide 46 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine to Brazil and 50 million doses to Turkey. It'll also supply 40 million doses of vaccine bulk -- the vaccine concentrate before it is divided into little vials -- to Indonesia for local production. CanSino Biologics, which developed a coronavirus vaccine with a research unit of the Chinese military, will deliver 35 million doses of its vaccine to Mexico, one of the five host countries of its trials. China National Biotec Group (CNBG), a unit of state-owned pharmaceutical giant China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm), has been less open about its deals. The company's two vaccine candidates are undergoing phase 3 trials in 10 countries, mostly in the Middle East and South America. In the United Arab Emirates, Dubai's ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum volunteered to be vaccinated in trials and the vaccine was approved for emergency use. The Emirati company in partnership with Sinopharm hopes to produce between 75 and 100 million doses next year. Sinopharm chairman Liu Jingzhen said last month that dozens of countries have requested to buy the company's vaccines. He did not name the countries or elaborate on the amount of doses they proposed, but he said CNBG was capable of producing more than one billion doses in 2021. "China not only has the political will (for its vaccine diplomacy), it also has the robust capacity to make that happen," Huang said. Because China has largely contained the virus, there's no urgent need to vaccinate every one of its 1.4 billion population. "That gives it this leverage ... to make deals with countries in need of the vaccines," he said. China's global vaccine campaign is in stark contrast to the Trump administration's "America first" approach, which focuses on vaccinating its own citizens before those elsewhere. "So far we haven't heard the US saying or suggesting they're gonna earmark a percentage of their vaccine to support poor countries. So that puts China in an even better situation to use the vaccine to serve its foreign policy objective," Huang said. In October, China joined a World Health Organization-backed global initiative to ensure the rapid and equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines to rich and poor countries alike. The project, known as COVAX, is designed to discourage governments from hoarding coronavirus vaccines and instead focus on vaccinating high-risk groups in every country. But it was shunned by the United States, partly because President Donald Trump did not want to work with the WHO, leaving a global public health leadership vacuum for China to fill. From early on, Chinese leaders have repeatedly stressed that China's vaccines are for sharing, especially with the developing world. In May, Chinese President Xi Jinping told the WHO's annual assembly that China would make its coronavirus vaccine a "global public good," calling it the country's "contribution to ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries." In a video summit with African leaders in June, Xi pledged that "once the development and deployment of a Covid-19 vaccine is completed in China, African countries will be among the first to benefit." In August, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said Beijing would also give priority access to Cambodia, Myanmar, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam. Other countries that have been promised priority access by Chinese officials include Afghanistan and Malaysia. Many of these countries are also in Beijing's Belt and Road Initiative, a multibillion dollar infrastructure and trade program that has lost some of its steam during the pandemic. Recently, Chinese officials have ramped up talks of a "Health Silk Road." At the WHO meeting in May, Xi pledged to donate $2 billion over two years to help countries cope with the pandemic. Beijing has also offered a $1 billion loan to Latin America and the Caribbean for access to its coronavirus vaccines. But there are signs that China's vaccine diplomacy won't always be a smooth ride. In Brazil, Sinovac's vaccine, CoronaVac, has been embroiled in a political feud between President Jair Bolsonaro -- known for his stauch anti-China stance -- and the governor of Sao Paulo, Joao Doria, who is expected to run against Bolsonaro in the country's next presidential elections in 2022. In Bangladesh, Sinovac's trial has been stalled due to a funding dispute. International public health experts have also questioned China's emergency use program, which inoculated nearly one million Chinese people with experimental vaccines before their safety had been fully proven by clinical trials. Then there's the question of efficacy. Last month, Pfizer and Moderna announced that early results showed their vaccines to be over 90% effective, while another candidate produced jointly by Oxford University and AstraZeneca had an average efficacy of 70%. So far, none of the Chinese vaccine candidates have announced any preliminary efficacy results, though company executives have repeatedly stressed their safety, insisting no serious adverse effect has been observed in vaccinated volunteers. Compared with Pfizer and Moderna, Chinese vaccines have a crucial advantage -- most of them do not require freezing temperatures for storage, making transport and distribution much easier, especially in developing countries that lack cold storage capacities. Kate O'Brien, director of the WHO's immunization and vaccines department, likens the development of vaccines to building a base camp at Everest. "But the climb to the peak is really about delivering the vaccines," she said at a news conference last month. Both Pfizer and Moderna's vaccines use pieces of genetic material called messenger RNA (mRNA) to prompt the body to make synthetic pieces of the coronavirus and stimulate an immune response -- a new technology that has not been used in existing vaccines. But mRNA is vulnerable to degradation at room temperature. Moderna's vaccine has to be stored at -20 degree Celsius (-4 degrees Fahrenheit), or at refrigerator temperatures for up to 30 days, while the Pfizer vaccine has to be stored at an ultra-cold temperature of -75˚C (-103˚F), and used within five days once refrigerated at higher temperatures. Sinopharm and Sinovac, meanwhile, use an old-fashioned approach that has long been proven effective in other vaccines, such as polio and flu shots. Their coronavirus vaccines employ an inactivated whole virus to prompt the body to develop immunity, and only need to be stored at standard refrigerator temperatures of 2˚C to 8˚C (36˚F to 46˚F). CanSino's vaccine, which uses a common cold virus called adenovirus 5 to carry genetic fragments of coronavirus into the body, can also be kept at 2˚C to 8˚C. Still, the required temperatures must be maintained throughout transport, from leaving the production facility to airport storage and finally to global distribution. Cainiao, the logistics arm of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, will help with the distribution of the Chinese vaccines as soon as they're given the go ahead. It says its end-to-end climate controlled infrastructure is in place and ready. The company has partnered with Shenzhen Baoan International Airport, which recently received the certification for pharmaceutical logistics from the International Air Transport Association. A cold-chain warehouse was built in 2019 for frozen foods and goods. Earlier this year, it was converted to store coronavirus testing kits -- and now vaccines. The airport said on its website that it wants to make Shenzhen a "Covid-19 vaccine global delivery base." Cainiao is also in partnership with Ethiopian Airlines, which will be sending the Chinese vaccines to the Middle East and then Africa. Since the pandemic, the airline has flown more than 3,000 tons of medical supplies from Shenzhen to Europe, Africa, the Middle East and South America. But Cainiao is also looking to add more routes for greater global reach, according to its CEO Wan Lin. "Of course, we are not still quite sure about the exact demand on that but we are definitely building our capability to be prepared for that," Wan said.
An unprecedented leak of internal Chinese documents reveals how the country mishandled the early stages of the coronavirus pandemic. The documents - from Hubei province, the site of the world's first known outbreak - show China announced misleading numbers of new cases and deaths, was hampered by an average three-week delay in diagnosing new cases, and experienced a huge spike in influenza in the epicenter province in early December.
North Korean hackers are suspected to have carried out a cyberattack against British coronavirus vaccine developer AstraZeneca in recent weeks, Reuters revealed Friday, citing two unnamed sources with knowledge of the matter. According to Reuters, North Korean hackers posed as recruiters on networking site LinkedIn and WhatsApp in order to approach AstraZeneca staff, including those working on coronavirus research, with fake job offers. The suspected hackers then sent documents -- some using Russian email addresses -- purporting to be job descriptions that were in fact laced with malicious code designed to give the hackers access to the victim's computers, Reuters reported. According to Reuters' sources, the hackers are not thought to have been successful. While AstraZeneca has declined to comment on the matter, the University of Oxford -- which is working in conjunction with the drugmaker to develop a coronavirus vaccine -- told CNN in a statement that the university is working closely with the UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) to ensure its protection. "Oxford University is working closely with the National Cyber Security Centre to ensure our COVID-19 research has the best possible cyber security and protection," a university spokesperson told CNN. The NCSC has not directly commented on the matter, but told CNN on Friday that it is "committed to protecting our most critical assets, the health sector, and crucial vaccine research and development against threats." CNN has reached out to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea's mission to the United Nations in Geneva for an official comment but has yet to receive a response. In a telephone conversation with CNN, a member of staff at the mission said the Reuters report was "fake news," alleging that the information had been "fabricated." The reporting comes after a South Korean lawmaker said the country had also thwarted North Korean attempts to hack its own pharmaceutical companies working on coronavirus vaccines. Speaking on Friday, lawmaker Ha Tae-Keung did not say when the hacking occurred or which drug companies were targeted, but confirmed North Korea had made attempts to hack South Korean pharmaceutical companies that are developing local vaccines for the coronavirus.
Almost a million people have been given an experimental coronavirus vaccine developed by Sinopharm as part of an emergency-use program authorized by Beijing, the Chinese pharmaceutical giant's chairman said. No serious adverse effects have been reported from vaccine recipients so far, Sinopharm said Wednesday in an article on social media platform WeChat, citing Chairman Liu Jingzhen. "In emergency use, we now have used it on nearly a million people. We have not received any reports of serious adverse reaction, and only a few have some mild symptoms," Liu said. Liu said the vaccine had been given to Chinese construction workers, diplomats, and students who have gone to more than 150 countries around the world during the pandemic -- and none of them has reported an infection. He said on November 6 that there were 56,000 people who had received emergency vaccinations and then gone overseas. "For example, a transnational company has 99 employees in one of its overseas offices, of whom 81 were vaccinated. And later, an outbreak broke out in the office, 10 of the 18 people who were not vaccinated were infected and none of those vaccinated were infected," he said. He said that separately, Sinopharm had carried out Phase 3 clinical trials involving almost 60,000 people in 10 countries -- including the UAE, Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Peru, and Argentina. CNN has not seen the results of these trials yet. Sinopharm has two vaccine candidates. It's unclear which vaccine Liu referred to. Beijing has granted approval to companies for urgent vaccinations using experimental drugs for months. In June, Chinese company CanSino Biologics announced it had been given special authorization to administer its experimental vaccine to the People's Liberation Army. Since July, Chinese drug makers have been administering experimental vaccines to people working in "high-risk" professions under the emergency use program, which allows vaccine candidates to be used on a limited scale before their safety and efficacy have been fully proven by clinical trials. Experimental coronavirus vaccines have even been reportedly offered to the public in parts of China, causing some citizens to rush across the country to get their hands on a dose. It comes after Pfizer announced the results of its Phase 3 coronavirus vaccine trials on Wednesday, which it said was 95% effective in preventing infections -- even in older adults -- and caused no serious safety concerns. A day earlier, Moderna announced that its coronavirus vaccine was 94.5% effective. Pfizer is expected to seek US Food and Drug Administration emergency use authorization for its vaccine Friday. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, said the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines had shown extraordinary efficacy. "That is extraordinary," Fauci said. "That is almost to the level of what we see with measles (vaccine), which is 98% effective."
As much of the world struggles to contain new waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, Taiwan just marked its 200th consecutive day without a locally transmitted case of the disease. Taipei's response to the coronavirus pandemic has been one of the world's most effective. The island of 23 million people last reported a locally transmitted case on April 12, which was Easter Sunday. As of Thursday, it had confirmed 553 cases -- only 55 of which were local transmissions. Seven deaths have been recorded. Easter was an important milestone in the United States because President Donald Trump had said a month earlier he wanted the country "opened up and just raring to go" by the holiday. At that point, 1.7 million people had been infected and 110,000 had been killed by the virus -- globally. On Friday, those figures had passed 45 million cases and more than 1.1 million deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University. Taiwan's landmark achievement comes in a week when France and Germany are enacting new lockdowns and the United States identified a record 88,000-plus cases in a day. The state of Florida, which has a similar population size to Taiwan, with approximately 21 million people, identified 4,188 cases on Wednesday alone. Taiwan has never had to enact strict lockdowns. Nor did it resort to drastic restrictions on civil freedoms, like in mainland China. Instead, Taiwan's response focused on speed. Taiwanese authorities began screening passengers on direct flights from Wuhan, where the virus was first identified, on December 31, 2019 -- back when the virus was mostly the subject of rumors and limited reporting. Taiwan confirmed its first reported case of the novel coronavirus on January 21 and then banned Wuhan residents from traveling to the island. All passengers arriving from mainland China, Hong Kong and Macao were required to undergo screening. All this happened before Wuhan itself went into lockdown on January 23. By March, Taiwan banned all foreign nationals from entering the island, apart from diplomats, residents and those with special entry visas. But Taiwan has advantages its counterparts in the West do not. One is geography -- Taiwan is an island, so it's easier for officials to control entry and exit through its borders. Taiwan also had experience on its side. After suffering through the deadly outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2003, Taiwan worked to build up its capacity to deal with a pandemic, Taiwanese Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said in an interview last month. "So, when we heard that there were some secret pneumonia cases in China where patients were treated in isolation, we knew it was something similar," he said. Authorities activated the island's Central Epidemic Command Center, which was set up in the wake of SARS, to coordinate between different ministries. The government also ramped up face mask and protective equipment production to make sure there would be a steady supply of PPE. The government also invested in mass testing and quick and effective contact tracing. Former Taiwanese Vice President Chen Chien-jen, who is an epidemiologist by training, said lockdowns are not ideal. Chen also said that the type of mass-testing schemes undertaken in mainland China, where millions of people are screened when a handful of cases are detected, are also unnecessary. "Very careful contact tracing, and very stringent quarantines of close contacts are the best way to contain Covid-19," he said.