Germany was praised among European nations for its handling of the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. But on Tuesday it suffered its deadliest day yet and infection rates are still rising. So what's gone wrong? Speaking in the German parliament Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel warned that nationwide restrictions brought in on November 2 had not proven effective enough, with too many people now dead or in intensive care units with Covid-19. A day after the country reported a record 590 deaths, Merkel grew emotional as she appealed to her fellow Germans to keep one another safe by reducing their social contacts before the holidays, especially if they plan to visit older people. "If we have too many contacts now before Christmas, and that ends up making it the last Christmas with the grandparents, then we will have failed. We should not do that," she told a budget session in the Bundestag. The Chancellor added that the daily death toll was a price too high for keeping some shops open, including much-loved waffle and mulled wine stands in the festive season. "There are still 14 days until Christmas and we have to do everything we can to prevent exponential growth again," she said. Merkel urged federal state leaders to start the Christmas holidays sooner, on December 16 rather than December 19, to help people limit their contacts and allow them to isolate for longer before seeing older relatives. The Chancellor also wants a full lockdown to be implemented for several days, possibly two weeks, after Christmas in order to bring down infection rates. But for that to happen, she needs to get the leaders of all 16 states on side. As Europe's second wave of coronavirus infections gathered steam going into the autumn, some European nations -- like France and England -- imposed national lockdown measures. However, Germany's state and federal leaders agreed on lighter restrictions. A nationwide partial lockdown was imposed which required restaurant and bars to remain closed, but schools and shops remained open. People were urged to avoid travel, keep their contacts to an absolute minimum and limit public meetings to no more than five members of two different households. These restrictions are due to be relaxed over the Christmas period in much of the country, allowing people to meet in groups of up to 10 people, not counting children. While some states, like Bavaria, favor stricter measures, others are opposed. Meanwhile, Germany is struggling to contain a surge in new infections and death rates have continued to climb. The country suffered its deadliest day of the pandemic Tuesday, with 590 known fatalities, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) said Wednesday. The previous record was 487 known deaths, reported December 2, according to RKI, the country's disease and control agency. The RKI also reported 20,815 new daily infections on Wednesday, about 3,500 more than the same day of the previous week. The total tally of Covid-19 infections in the country is now 1,218,524. At least 19,932 people have died of Covid-19 in Germany, the public health agency's data shows. This figure is still much lower than that of fellow European nations such as the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Spain, reflecting Germany's success in handling the first pandemic wave. Addressing the Bundestag, Merkel said Germany was finding the second wave more demanding than the first, although the country could see "light at the end of the tunnel" thanks to progress on Covid-19 vaccines. Calling for state leaders to back tougher measures, she said it was wrong, in her opinion, that hotels were open during the Christmas season, as it could create an incentive for relatives to make overnight trips. "I also think it's right to close the schools during this time either by extending the holidays until January 10, or doing digital lessons, whatever, but we need fewer contacts," Merkel said. Germany's leaders warned last month that if the country failed to rein in rising infections, its much vaunted healthcare system could collapse within weeks. Health Minister Jens Spahn reiterated that message in an interview Tuesday with ARD TV, saying: "High costs, high death tolls, high strain on our intensive care units. It cannot go on like this. We have to look out for one another -- even if some don't want to hear it anymore." The head of Germany's Interdisciplinary Agency for Intensive Care Medicine (DIVI) urged people Wednesday to try not to visit their loved ones during the holidays. "At that moment you all get together for Christmas and say it will all be under control," said Uwe Janssens, president of DIVI, in an interview with CNN affiliate N-TV. "Then seven days later, your grandma gets a high fever, another seven days later she gets transferred to the ICU and another three days later, maybe, she is dead. Maybe then your eyes will open, but then, unfortunately, it will be too late." Several German states have already decided to tighten restrictions to try to get the coronavirus situation under control. The state of Saxony, in southeast Germany, will go into what officials there call a "hard lockdown" next week, closing most shops and moving schools to online classes. Bavaria, which has some of the highest numbers of coronavirus infections, also agreed Tuesday on tighter lockdown restrictions. Its governor, Markus Soeder, criticized people who shrug off high death numbers as he gave an emotional speech in Bavaria's state parliament. "I think it is highly disturbing and extremely outrageous if the reaction is just a shrug of the shoulders. Death tolls are not just statistics," he said. "Of course it is mostly older people, but we are talking about our parents and grandparents. How can some react so heartlessly and coldly when talking about this subject?" His comments come against a backdrop of skepticism in some parts of German society. A string of demonstrations has taken place against the country's anti-pandemic measures, with many protesters denying the severity of the virus.
Germany on Friday announced it had recorded 598 coronavirus fatalities in the previous 24 hours, according to data from the Robert Koch Institute, the country's center for disease control. It was Germany's highest single-day coronavirus death toll since the pandemic began. The nation also registered a record 29,875 new confirmed infections on Friday -- roughly 6,000 more than the day before. German lawmakers will meet in the coming days to tighten lockdown measures in a bid to get the surge in infections under control. According to Johns Hopkins University, there are now 1,287,092 confirmed coronavirus infections in Germany, including 21,064 related deaths.
German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier has warned that new coronavirus infections are growing “exponentially again” and said politicians need to “act now” in order to curb the spread of coronavirus. Speaking on Public TV on Thursday, Altmaier said "the exponential growth is reoccurring, and this means we urgently have to act now if do not want to get things entirely out of control." "We need to see the infections numbers drop significantly by the beginning of next year," Altmaier added. On Friday, Germany recorded a record number of infections and a record death toll over a 24-hour period, with 29,875 new cases and 598 deaths. Data from the German Interdisciplinary Association for Intensive and Emergency Medicine (DIVI) showed Thursday the number of Covid-19 patients admitted to intensive care units in Germany also reached an all-time high. DIVI reported 4,339 patients being treated in intensive care facilities. Nearly 60% of patients in ICUs need ventilation and around 4,753 ICU beds are still vacant, figures showed. On Thursday, the country's agency for disease control, the Robert Koch Institute, warned people to reduce contacts by more than 60% on their own or face tougher restrictions. Weeks of a partial national lockdown have not slowed the spread of coronavirus infections enough. Earlier this week German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she wants to implement a full lockdown for as long as two weeks after Christmas to bring down infection numbers. Merkel is set to meet with Germany's sixteen federal state premiers Sunday to set out a coordinated plan on a full potential nationwide lockdown.
Russia reported 28,585 new Covid-19 cases and 613 deaths on Friday -- the highest daily increase in fatalities recorded since the beginning of the pandemic, according to the data published by the country’s coronavirus task force. As of December 11, Russia reported a total of 2,597,711 cases and 45,893 deaths. CNN and other media have previously reported that Russia’s method for coronavirus-related fatalities has been questioned by independent observers, and that the real toll could be much higher. Late Thursday, Russian statistics agency Rosstat separately published mortality figures for October, suggesting that almost 23,000 people with coronavirus or suspected coronavirus died that month. For comparison, the task force, which provides daily figures on new cases and fatalities, reported only 7,344 cases that month. Excess deaths recorded by Rosstat between April and October stand at roughly 164,000 compared to the same period in 2019. 
Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has tested positive for Covid-19 and will self-isolate. Mishustin confirmed his test results in a videoconference with President Vladimir Putin, and nominated his deputy to take over for him as acting Prime Minister. "It just became known that the coronavirus tests I took came back positive, so I must oblige by the self-isolation rules and it's mandatory [that I do that] for the safety of my colleagues," Mishustin said in a segment aired on Russia 24 state channel. Putin signed a decree appointing Andrey Belousov to the role on an acting basis, following Mishustin's recommendation. Mishustin's diagnosis makes him the most high-profile political figure in Russia to contract the coronavirus. The Prime Minister attended a meeting of the government's coordinating council for combating the spread of the virus on Wednesday, in which he said it was "impossible" to give an exact date when Russia's borders would re-open. The country surpassed 100,000 confirmed cases earlier on Thursday, after announcing its highest single-day rise of 7,099 new infections. Since the beginning of the pandemic 1,073 people have died in Russia, according to the country's coronavirus response headquarters.
Four members of the Vatican's Swiss Guard tested positive for Covid-19 over the weekend and are in isolation. The guards all have symptoms and contact tracing is being carried out among those who may have had direct contact with them, Matteo Bruni, director of the Holy See Press Office, said in a news release. "In the meantime, according to instructions issued last week by the Governorate of the Vatican City State, all the guards, whether on duty or not, wear masks, both outdoors and indoors, and observe the prescribed health measures," Bruni said. Three other residents and citizens of Vatican City recently tested positive for coronavirus. All have mild symptoms and are in isolation at home, the news release said. Vatican City, which is a city-state located within Rome is the home of the Pope and the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church. Italy reported over 5,000 new coronavirus cases on October 9, which represents the highest daily rise in new Covid-19 cases since March 28. The Italian Council of Ministers passed a decree on Wednesday that requires the mandatory use of masks outdoors in an attempt to slow down the spread of the virus across the country.
For nearly a month, Italy held the awful distinction of having the most coronavirus deaths of any country in the world -- topping China, the original epicenter, in mid-March, and being overtaken by the United States three and a half weeks later. But now doctors are hoping to turn Italy's terrible suffering to its advantage. The country is pinning its hopes on using the blood plasma of Covid-19 survivors to help those who are suffering most from it in hospitals now. "Good can come out of this," said Dr. Fausto Baldanti. "We had such a huge outbreak, [that] now we have many potential donors." People who recover from an infection, or who tested positive but never experienced symptoms, develop antibodies in their blood plasma. Those antibodies can be transfused into another victim, where they might help to neutralize the virus in the recipient's body. For decades, doctors have used plasma or even whole blood from recovered patients to treat the newly infected. Baldanti is a virologist at the University of Pavia San Matteo Hospital in Italy's northern Lombardy region, which has seen the most cases and deaths in the country. He hopes "this plasma treatment can be crucial for controlling the infection in patients admitted to intensive care units." That's the theory, anyway -- but the treatment is still in the experimental phase in Italy. It depends on the development of a proven test for coronavirus antibodies -- which is not yet available. (In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration just tightened restrictions on antibody tests after an earlier relaxing of the rules led to a flood of low-quality tests.) Antibody tests, also known as serology tests, don't diagnose active infection with the coronavirus. Rather, they check for proteins in the immune system -- antibodies -- through a blood sample. The presence of antibodies may mean a person has at least some immunity -- although experts are not sure how strong the immunity may be or how long it will last. The director general of the Italian National Blood Center hopes to have a test ready within weeks. "We should have a serological exam (blood test) that is approved to test if someone has antibodies by the end of April. We will start selecting the first donors by the end of the month," Giancarlo Maria Liumbruno told CNN. "This new initiative would allow us to go through our 1,700,000 blood donors in Italy, to see who has been infected or is asymptomatic and has developed antibodies," he said. Once an antibody test is approved, Italy plans to open its blood banks to donations from people with coronavirus antibodies, Liumbruno said. The test would allow scientists to select the most effective blood donors, San Matteo hospital virologist Baldanti explained: "So, who has the highest activity of the virus? You use that plasma to infuse into the sick patients." The project aims to recruit repeat voluntary plasma donors with antibodies, Liumbruno said. In northern Italy, trials have already begun at some hospitals of treating patients with plasma from an individual who has recovered from the virus and has tested negative for it for at least 14 days. The plasma is separated from blood cells in a process called plasmapheresis and intravenously given to a Covid-19 patient. Plasma could also be the key to creating an effective drug therapy, according to Liumbruno. Hospitals from the hard-hit northern region are working with Kedrion Biopharma, a global biotech company with production facilities in Italy and the United States. It is one of four companies authorized by Italy's National Health Service to fractionate plasma from blood banks. It is working on a plasma-derived treatment for Covid-19 and expects it to be ready in three to six months, according to its Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Alessandro Gringeri. "Initially we will use plasma from about 100 patients who have recovered from Covid-19 in order to develop a dosage that can be injected through either intravenous or intramuscular means," Gringeri said. "We will generate a plasma-derived immunoglobulin therapy that can be administered to either patients who are suffering from Covid-19 or health care workers to provide temporary passive immunization." Gringeri says the company plans to start collecting plasma from convalescent patients by the end of May, with a hope of having a prototype of the treatment by the end of September. If the theory proves successful in practice, Italy's tragedy may at least turn out to contain the seeds of a solution.
Moscow's health department hit back at media reports that it was underreporting Covid-19 fatalities, saying its data was "absolutely open," but acknowledging that it only counts deaths that were found through postmortem autopsy to have been caused directly by coronavirus complications. In a statement Wednesday, the Moscow health department said authorities conducted autopsies on 100% of suspected coronavirus victims and confirmed that 639 people died directly of coronavirus complications in April. "In other cases, it's impossible to put Covid-19 as the cause of death," the health department said in a statement Wednesday, acknowledging the April spike in mortality rates. "In more than 60% of [suspected] cases, deaths were caused by obvious alternative causes, such as heart failure, stage four malignant diseases, leukemia ... and other incurable deadly diseases," it said. City health officials argue that a mandatory autopsy is performed on all patients with suspected coronavirus to establish diagnosis and cause of death "in contrast with the practice in most other countries," adding: "Post-mortem diagnoses and causes of death recorded in Moscow are therefore extremely accurate, and mortality data is completely open. It is impossible to name the cause of death as Covid-19 in other cases." CNN and other news outlets reported this week that Moscow saw a surge in mortality in April, according to civil register's data. The city registered 11,846 death certificates that month, which is about 20% higher compared to a ten-year average of 9,866 deaths. The statistics in the Russian capital have come under scrutiny as observers note the comparatively low overall number of deaths in Russia -- a total that currently stands at 2,305 according to Johns Hopkins University -- even as the country takes second place in the world for the number of confirmed cases, over a quarter of a million. Russia has the second-highest number of cases behind the US, and Moscow is the country's worst hit-city. According to official statistics, Moscow has seen a total of 1,290 deaths out of an official total of over 130,000 cases recorded as of Thursday, although Moscow Mayor Sergey Sobyanin has said the total number of people infected is likely higher, based on screening studies. The statement from the Moscow health authorities argued that even if all mortality figures for April in Moscow were adjusted to attribute more cases to coronavirus, the overall mortality rate from Covid-19 infections would be far lower than the official mortality rates in New York and London.
Pope Francis will travel to Iraq in March 2021, the Vatican press office announced on Monday. His trip to the war-torn country could be his first outside of Italy since the coronavirus pandemic began. Francis is set to "visit Baghdad, linked to the memory of Abraham, the city of Erbil, as well as Mosul and Qaraqosh in the plain of Nineveh" from March 5-8, the Vatican communique said. "The programme of the journey will be made known in due course, and will take into consideration the evolution of the worldwide health emergency," it added. The Pope's visit "represents a historic event and support for all Iraqis of all sectors," Iraq's foreign ministry said in a statement. "It also represents a message of peace to Iraq and to the region as a whole, affirms the unity of the humanitarian position in confronting extremism and conflicts, and promotes diversity and tolerance. And coexistence." The Pope has long sought a trip to Iraq, Vatican News reported Monday, and told a meeting of Catholic aid agencies last year that he wanted to travel there in 2020. "I think constantly of Iraq -- where I want to go next year -- in the hope that it can face the future through the peaceful and shared pursuit of the common good on the part of all elements of society, including the religious, and not fall back into hostilities sparked by the simmering conflicts of the regional powers," Francis said during the June 2019 meeting. Pope Francis met with Iraqi President Barham Salih at the Vatican on January 25 and they spoke about "preserving the historical presence of Christians in the country" and "highlighting the need to guarantee their security and a place in the future of Iraq," Vatican News reported. On Monday, Salih called the planned visit "a message of peace to Iraqis of all religions." "The journey of Pope Francis to Mesopotamia - cradle of civilization, birthplace of Abraham, father of the faithful - will be a message of peace to Iraqis of all religions & serve to affirm our common values of justice & dignity," Salih said in a tweet. Around 1% of Iraq's population is Christian from a number of denominations. The country has seen an exodus of Christians in recent years as Iraq was wracked by cycles of violence, including the rise of ISIS. Extremist groups have repeatedly targeted churches since the 2003 US invasion triggered over a decade of civil unrest. Prior to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, Pope Francis visited several Muslim-majority countries, including the United Arab Emirates. His trip to the UAE in February 2019 marked the first-ever visit by a pontiff to the Arabian peninsula. Despite its shrinking Christian population, Iraq figures heavily in the Bible. The Tower of Babel, Abraham's plains of Ur, the Garden of Eden and other biblical places are located in Iraq.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday ordered his government to start large-scale vaccinations against Covid-19 from next week. Russia became the first country in the world to approve its coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V, in August, authorizing the treatment for public use even before crucial Phase 3 trials were conducted. The move drew criticism from scientific circles. On Wednesday Putin, speaking during a televised government meeting, said Russia should begin a widespread vaccination effort. "Over two million doses have been produced or will have been produced in the next few days. The first registered vaccine against the coronavirus infection in the world, Sputnik V, will reach this level of production. This allows us to begin -- if not mass -- a large-scale vaccination," the Russian leader said. Putin added that the primary focus should be the "vaccination of the two risk groups: of doctors and teachers." He was addressing Russia Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova, who is responsible for the country's coronavirus response. "If you believe that we are close to this step I would ask you to organize work in a way that by the end of next week we would start this large-scale vaccination," he told Golikova. Golikova replied that Russia will be able to start large-scale vaccination in December. She reiterated that the first priority was to inoculate doctors and teachers but added that she was looking at vaccinating larger groups. "I would like to state again that obviously, it will be voluntary, free of charge for citizens and this week I hope... I'm sure we will finish all the preparations to report that we are ready to start it next week," Golikova said during the meeting. Putin replied: "Let's agree that you will not just report, but will start the large-scale vaccination, okay?" Health Minister Mikhail Murashko said Wednesday that to date more than 100,000 Russian citizens had already been vaccinated with Sputnik. Murashko didn't specify a breakdown of the 100,000 people but phase 3 trials are currently underway which involve more than 40,000 volunteers. More than 20,000 people have received their first dose of Sputnik V as part of the Phase 3 trial, and 16,000 participants have received the second dose, according to the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which has funded the vaccine. The vaccine developers have previously said Sputnik-V was administered to a group of 10,000 volunteers from the "red zones" of Russian hospitals in September. Moreover, the Russian military said last week 2,500 servicemen had been vaccinated with more to come by the end of the year. The jab has already been administered to some Russian frontline health care workers, teachers and several top level officials outside the clinical trials. Putin's order to intensify the vaccination program comes after the UK became the first Western country to authorize the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine on Wednesday.
2020 has been far from festive, but as the year comes to an end, many of Europe's governments are scrambling to avoid stringent lockdowns over the Christmas holidays. The push to save the celebration comes despite the fact that other religious festivals -- including Christian ones -- have been marked in a muted fashion in recent months. The UK government on Tuesday unveiled plans to temporarily relax coronavirus restrictions for five days, from December 23 to 27, allowing up to three households to celebrate together in "Christmas bubbles." This means small groups of family and friends will be able meet in person for what may be the first time in months. England is currently under its second national lockdown and the UK as a whole has recorded more than 1.5 million Covid-19 cases. "This year, Christmas will be different," said Prime Minister Boris Johnson. "Many of us are longing to spend time with family and friends, irrespective of our faith or background, and yet we cannot throw caution to the wind. The virus doesn't know that it's Christmas." The previous day, Johnson cautioned that while the festive period may be "the season to be jolly ... it is also the season to be jolly careful, especially with elderly relatives." The message that stricter autumn rules could lead to a more relaxed Christmas period has been repeated across Europe. In France, a second national lockdown was imposed at the end of October, but despite non-essential businesses across the country being closed, the government has permitted the sale of Christmas trees, by decree. A slowdown in the spread of the virus means France's lockdown will begin to ease this weekend, President Emmanuel Macron said Tuesday. The restrictions could be lifted further on December 15, if the daily number of cases drops under 5,000 and there are only 2,000-3,000 in hospital ICUs. "We will therefore once again be able to travel without authorization, including between regions, and spend Christmas with our family," Macron said. In a speech earlier this autumn, Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said Italians could enjoy Christmas if they abided by the country's Covid-19 restrictions. But since then, officials have struck a more cautious note. Sandra Zampa, an undersecretary at Italy's Ministry of Health, said on November 11 that the government wanted to avoid large Christmas parties. Instead, she said gatherings would likely be limited to close relatives such as parents, children and siblings. "I don't think we can go any further," Zampa said in a local television interview. The Irish government is set to ease restrictions for nearly two weeks around the Christmas period and is considering allowing up to three households to gather for the holidays, Deputy Prime Minister Leo Varadkar told state broadcaster RTE on Wednesday. And in Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel asked the public to obey social distancing restrictions in October, in order to preserve the country's Christmas celebrations. "We must do everything to ensure that the virus does not spread in an uncontrolled way. Every day now counts," she said on October 17. "How the winter will be, how our Christmas will be, that will be decided in the coming days and weeks." German MPs are currently considering a draft proposal which would allow up to 10 people to celebrate Christmas and New Year together, CNN affiliate n-tv reported. Christmas occupies a unique and outsize place in the religious calendar. But since the epidemic began, Passover, Easter, Eid al-Fitr, Eid al-Adha, Rosh Hashanah and Diwali have all been celebrated across Europe. All were marked quietly, without government debate. None attracted the fervor inspired by the prospect of a pandemic Christmas. Anjana Singh, 48, runs Amikal, a Hindu community group in Berlin. Singh organized an all-day virtual Diwali celebration to replace the more traditional festivities this November. "Usually we have a lot of spectators, 500 to 1,000, this is how usually we celebrate Diwali," she told CNN. "In February it was evident that corona was here. So Amikal decided, let's do it online." "Christmas could also easily be celebrated online," she added. "Through the digital platform we all can be together, yet we can be safe." The sense that some festivals are prioritized over others also exists in Britain. Many Muslims in northern England were caught off guard in July when the government restricted people's movements in some areas, just hours before Eid al-Adha prayers were due to begin. "I think it was right to go into lockdown during the Eid period," said Nadir Mohamed, the executive director of the Centre for Muslim Policy Research, a think tank based in London. "I think it wasn't so much that people disagreed with the lockdown itself, it was ... a very last hours sort of thing," he said. "There was no effective, or timely communication [about the restrictions.]" Elizabeth Oldfield, the director of Theos, a Christian think tank, told CNN that Christmas' importance now extends beyond religion, making it a national and secular event as well as a spiritual one. "Christmas is less the crux of the [Christian] theological year compared to Easter," Oldfield told CNN. This year, she pointed out, "Christians weren't able to mark Good Friday or celebrate Easter Sunday, which for the majority of Christians is really important." She added: "This 'saving Christmas' is almost entirely a cultural, civic Christian [idea.] This is not about religion at all, it's about national identity, civic identity." Oldfield also said governments know that a large number of people celebrate Christmas in Europe, compared to other religious days. In the UK alone, a 2018 survey by polling company YouGov found that nine out of 10 people celebrated Christmas with gifts. "Sometimes I feel there are two festivals at the same time," Oldfield said. "There's the secular, pagan and consumer-led festival which brings its own joys and then there's the actual Christian festival." Mohamed said: "Christmas is an occasion that isn't seen in the UK as a purely Christian thing. We're way past those days, everyone gets involved in the festivities one way or another." Regardless of government efforts, some hallmarks of a European Christmas have already been canceled due to Covid-19. In Belgium, all Christmas markets have been canceled, as has the market in the German city of Cologne. The Viennese Christmas Dream market in Austria, the Strasbourg Christmas Market in France and the Basel Christmas Market in Switzerland are all going ahead, however. On November 10, Estonia announced that all events in the country, including Christmas parties, would be canceled, though the government added that: "Celebrating Christmas with family is, of course, allowed." In Britain, government medical adviser Susan Hopkins has said that if people mix during the Christmas break, everyone will need to reduce their contacts again following the holiday. "Coming into Christmas, we'll need to be very careful about the number of contacts that we have and to reduce transmission before Christmas and get the cases as low as possible," Hopkins said on November 18. But other experts believe people should not risk gathering for the holidays at all. "We have not made nine months of sacrifices to throw it all away at Christmas," Gabriel Scally, visiting professor of public health at the University of Bristol, tweeted on November 19. Epidemiologist Shikta Das agrees with Scally. "The pandemic is going to stay here. The government is doing its [best] but these decisions won't help. We will go into lockdown after Christmas and the R rate will go up," Das told CNN. "If you have a very ill person in your family, it's probably better not to meet. Probably not a very good idea," she added. If Europe does choose to celebrate Christmas with a softening of lockdowns, there may be a price to pay in the new year. Canada has seen a spike in coronavirus cases in the three weeks since its citizens celebrated Canadian Thanksgiving in October. Its largest city, Toronto, went back into lockdown earlier this week. Dr. Mike Ryan, executive director of WHO's Health Emergencies Programme, said the country was a cautionary tale for the holiday season. "The question is, have you got the disease under enough control to start with, and can you, in a sense, allow people a little bit more freedom over ... the Christmas period, which generates a sense of confidence and a sense of joy in the community, which people need right now -- without letting the virus let rip again within our communities. And this is a very important tradeoff," Ryan said at a news briefing on Monday. Oldfield points out that it is natural for people to want to gather together to celebrate. "Sometimes this saving Christmas [idea] feels bonkers, because you don't want more deaths in return for your pigs-in-blankets," she told CNN. "But at the same time there's a very deep theological [concept] about thriving through human connection. This is really [happening] because we just want to be together."
Denmark plans to dig up thousands of dead mink culled to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, after the animals started to rise out of their mass graves. Hundreds of dead mink emerged from their burial sites, according to Danish state broadcaster TV2. It is believed the gas used to kill them caused the carcasses to swell and resurface, prompting Danish media to dub them "zombie mink." Earlier this month, Denmark ordered all farmed mink to be culled after finding that 12 people had been infected by a mutated strain of the virus that causes Covid-19, which passed from humans to mink and back to humans. Some 17 million mink were gassed and buried in trenches in a military zone in western Denmark. The bodies were buried under two meters of soil but hundreds started to rise to the surface. On Friday, Denmark's minister for agriculture, Rasmus Prehn, suggested one solution would be exhuming and burning the mink, but that would need the approval of the country's environment agency, he said. However, TV2 reports that the dead mink will be disinfected and reburied. Prehn became minister for agriculture after his predecessor, Mogens Jensen, was forced to step down over the order to cull all mink, which was determined to be illegal. This did not halt the culling program, however, and the speed of the killings, which involved gassing large numbers of mink in large boxes, raised ethical concerns. A video of a failed killing went viral in Denmark, with footage showing a lone, live mink wriggling in a box full of other dead animals. Another issue is the potential economic impact of the cull. The Danish fur industry directly supports 5,500 jobs. Spain and the Netherlands have also culled mink herds due to outbreaks of Covid-19 in the animals.
Europe is in meltdown again as daily Covid death tolls reach record highs and countries scramble to expand testing and rescue hospital systems that are buckling under the pressure. Health experts warn that despite hopeful news with a vaccine rollout starting in the UK, drastic action is still needed to save lives as coronavirus tears through nations attempting to regain some semblance of normality. Russia and Germany reported record daily Covid-19 deaths on Friday, and October was Russia's deadliest month in a decade. Stockholm's intensive care units hit 99% capacity as Sweden proposed a spring "pandemic law" to potentially force closures of certain public spaces. And France said its lockdown would not be eased as planned on Tuesday after daily case numbers rose on Thursday compared with last week. Germany tallied 598 fatalities in a span of 24 hours, according to the country's center for disease control, the Robert Koch Institute. The nation also added a record 29,875 new infections on Friday, roughly 6,000 more than the day before. German lawmakers are set to meet in the coming days to tighten lockdown measures in a bid to get the surge in infections under control. Chancellor Angela Merkel this week made an impassioned plea for Germans to limit their social contacts ahead of the holidays and called for more restrictions. Despite the country's much-vaunted health system and success in containing the virus earlier in the pandemic, its recent partial lockdown has failed to stop the second-wave surge. "Germany clearly is very worried and you can see their numbers are absolutely going in the wrong direction," Linda Bauld, professor of public health at the University of Edinburgh, told CNN. She said that was probably down to fewer restrictions and "the fact that their testing and tracing system has been under real strain." Bauld said countries such as Spain and France had made some progress thanks to recent lockdowns, but while the UK had taken some steps forward, areas including Wales were moving backwards. "In a number of parts of Europe, there have been restrictions that are now being loosened, and when they get loosened, people really take advantage of that and that's exactly what's happened in Wales," she added. "It's just human behavior. "I think January is going to be really difficult, and probably February as well." UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock warned on Thursday that the number of Covid-19 cases was rising again in some regions after flattening in recent weeks in the wake of England's November lockdown. The UK is averaging 16,000 new cases a day, a higher number than last week. Hancock said in a daily briefing that he was "particularly worried" about the number of cases in London and nearby Kent and Essex. In London, schoolchildren aged 11-18 account for the most cases while the rate in adults is "broadly flat," he said. To combat the rise while keeping schools open, mass testing is to be offered to all children in that age group in the worst-affected parts of these regions. London had the highest prevalence of Covid-19 in England in the week to December 6, fueling speculation that restrictions in the city could be tightened on December 16 when the government will review regional tiers. This would mean pubs and restaurants being forced to close. The UK recorded 20,964 new coronavirus infections on Thursday, a rise of almost 5,000 in the previous 24 hours, and 516 deaths. It brings the case count to almost 1.8 million and the death toll to 63,082. "People just really need to understand what the stakes are and that most of these deaths will be avoidable if we can just hold on a bit longer," Jennifer Dowd, associate professor of demography and population health at University of Oxford, told CNN. "I really want people to hunker down and I know that it's a big sacrifice for us to stay away from our loved ones and our friends but I think the fact that we can see the end point now is really exciting." France has decided the easing of restrictions scheduled for December 15 will not happen in the light of recent Covid-19 infection figures, French Prime Minister Jean Castex said at a news conference on Thursday. "On December 15, we will move to a new stage, but the rules will be stricter than what we had envisioned," Castex told reporters, adding that the target of 5,000 new cases per day -- which President Emmanuel Macron had set as a precondition to lifting the lockdown -- would not be met by that date. Health Minister Olivier Véran reported about 14,000 new coronavirus infections on Thursday, compared to 12,000 last Thursday, warning that cases could rise with low winter temperatures and holiday gatherings. Cultural venues including theaters and museums that were due to reopen on December 15 will remain closed for three more weeks, Castex said. France's 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew will be extended to 8 p.m. to 6 a.m., the Prime Minister added. One exception to that restriction will be made on Christmas Eve. However, French citizens will not need certificates to leave their homes from December 15 and they will be allowed to travel to other regions. Restaurants and cafés are still scheduled to reopen on January 20. Castex emphasized that the country's health situation had "considerably improved in recent weeks" but that improvement had slowed in the past few days. Russia also reported its highest ever single-day death toll with 613 deaths on Friday, according to data published by the country's coronavirus task force. It reported 28,585 new cases, bringing its total to 2,597,711 cases with 45,893 deaths. CNN and other media previously reported that Russia's counting method of coronavirus fatalities has been questioned by independent observers and the real toll could be much higher. Russian statistics agency Rosstat on Thursday published mortality figures for October, which suggested almost 23,000 deaths were linked to coronavirus that month. The task force, which provides daily figures on new cases and fatalities, reported only 7,344 cases that month. Rosstat has recorded roughly 164,000 excess deaths in Russia between April and October compared to the same period in 2019. The agency also reported more than 205,000 deaths in October, making it the deadliest month in a decade. The Swedish government -- which famously opted not to lock down during Europe's first wave of the pandemic -- wants to introduce a temporary "pandemic law" in the spring that would give it powers to potentially force closures of certain public spaces, as health officials said 99% of intensive care beds in Stockholm were full. Social Affairs Minister Lena Hallengren and Minister of Culture Amanda Lind said Wednesday that the proposed law, if passed by parliament, could take effect on March 15. "We are currently in a serious situation and we need help," Stockholm's Health Director Bjorn Eriksson told a news conference Wednesday. Speaking to CNN on Thursday, Eriksson said a shortage of healthcare workers has prompted conversations with private providers "to see if we can get reinforcements so that the care staff at our hospitals have time for recovery." He said that as of Thursday morning, "our hospitals had 10-12 intensive care units available and at the same time we are opening up more intensive care units; so the situation is constantly changing." He added that coronavirus patients also had access to "intermediate care, which is something in between a regular inpatient care and an intensive care unit," which helps take the pressure off ICUs. Now the vaccine rollout has started in Europe, there is hope, but Dowd says people need to make a final push to prevent unnecessary deaths. "I think if we can we somehow psychologically get there to think, let's sort of hibernate for the winter," she said. "And when we wake up in March and April, things will be a lot better."
Europe remained the biggest global contributor to new Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past week, the World Health Organization (WHO) said, despite signs that stricter measures against the spread of the virus are starting to have an impact. The European region accounted for 44% of global new cases and 49% of global new deaths in the past week, according to the latest weekly WHO report, released Tuesday. While the number of new cases in the region is declining on a weekly basis, the number of deaths is still rising, with 32,684 new fatalities reported in the previous seven days. This update comes as countries across the continent grapple with how to allow people to celebrate upcoming holidays, including Christmas, and mitigate the economic pain to businesses while countering the pandemic. France and the United Kingdom both set out plans Tuesday for the coming weeks based on falling infection rates following lockdown measures. Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, on Wednesday called on EU leaders not to relax their coronavirus restrictions too quickly. "I know that shop owners, bartenders and waiters in restaurants want an end to restrictions, but we must learn from the summer and not repeat the same mistakes," she told the European Parliament in Brussels. "Relaxing too fast and too much is a risk for a third wave after Christmas." Von der Leyen said she had warned weeks ago that this Christmas would be different, and quieter, than usual, and urged solidarity between European nations. But, she added, "there is also good news, the European Commission by now has secured contracts on vaccines with six pharmaceutical companies, the first European citizens might already be vaccinated before the end of December, and there's finally light at the end of the tunnel." The European Commission announced Tuesday that it had secured a contract with pharmaceutical company Moderna for up to 160 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine. According to the WHO report, the global acceleration in case incidence has slowed down over the past week, with around 4 million new cases recorded. However, death rates continued to increase, with more than 67,000 new deaths reported across the world. The number of new cases reported in the European region in the past week declined by 6% to 1.77 million, after a decline of 10% in the previous week, the report said, "in a sign that the reintroduction of stricter public health and social measures in a number of countries over the last few weeks is beginning to slow down transmission." But despite this downward trend, "the European Region remains the largest contributor to new cases and new deaths in the past 7 days," the report said. The European region, as defined by WHO, encompasses 53 countries. Italy reported the highest number of new cases in the region and the third-highest globally, with 235,979, but, according to WHO, cases may have peaked given the 3% decline reported there. The number of new deaths increased in the country by 26% last week, to 4,578. The second largest global contributor to new cases and deaths was the Americas region, with 1.6 million new cases -- an increase of 11% on the previous week -- and 22,005 new deaths, up 15% on the previous week, according to WHO. The majority of those were in the United States, which reported over 1.1 new million cases, a 14% increase from the previous week, while deaths increased in the US over that period by 23%, with 9,918. The Americas region continues to account for the greatest proportion of cumulative cases and deaths, according to WHO figures. Despite some positive signs, parts of Europe continue to grapple with a relentless second wave of Covid-19 infections. Germany recorded 410 deaths related to coronavirus in the past 24 hours -- the highest single-day jump in fatalities since the outbreak began, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), the country's disease and control agency, said Wednesday. It was the first time that more than 400 Covid-19 deaths were recorded by Germany in a single day. A total of 18,633 new infections were registered in the past 24 hours, according to RKI. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is set to meet state governors on Wednesday to decide on new measures to try to bring the surge under control. Among the measures to be debated is an extension of the current, lighter restrictions until the end of December, additional mask mandates for schools and further restrictions on the number of contacts people are allowed to have. Meanwhile, Poland reported 674 coronavirus deaths on Wednesday, a new daily record for the nation. The total number of deaths connected to Covid-19 has reached 14,888, its health ministry tweeted. There were also 15,362 new cases reported in the last day, bringing the total number of cases to 942,442. The latest WHO figures brought some relief for the United Kingdom, which has suffered the highest number of Covid-related deaths overall in Europe, with 55,935 in total, according to the latest figures from Johns Hopkins University. The UK registered a 13% decrease of new cases from last week, with 149,027 reported, while the number of new deaths remained similar, according to the WHO. This decrease in new cases was the first weekly decline since late August, the report said. A month-long partial lockdown in England is due to end on December 2, to be replaced by three-tiered restrictions based on local infection rates. Devolved governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have imposed their own measures. The UK government said Tuesday it would allow for up to three households to form a "Christmas bubble" and mix indoors, outdoors and in places of worship from December 23 to 28 across the UK. There will be no restrictions on travel across the country for that time period even if some areas are under tighter measures than others, the government said. "This cannot be a 'normal' Christmas. But as we approach the festive period, we have been working closely together to find a way for family and friends to see each other, even if it is for a short time, and recognising that it must be both limited and cautious," a government news release said. Across the Channel in France, President Emmanuel Macron said the country would start to lift Covid-19 lockdown restrictions this weekend because of a slowdown in the spread of virus. In an address to the nation, Macron said the latest figures showed that more than 50,000 people had died from Covid-19 in France but the number of patients in ICUs was on the decline. "It appears that the peak of the second wave of the epidemic has passed; we dreaded even worse numbers and avoided them," he said. As of Saturday, shops, boutiques and hairdressers will be allowed to open until 9 p.m., but people will still need to carry a certificate with an approved reason to leave the house. Internal travel restrictions will also be eased and places of worship can reopen with a maximum of 30 people gathered at the same time. The lockdown could be lifted further on December 15, if the daily number of cases drops under 5,000 and there are only 2,000 to 3,000 patients in hospital ICUs. "We will therefore once again be able to travel without authorization, including between regions, and spend Christmas with our family," Macron said. In that instance, French cinemas, theaters and museums would also be allowed to open, but bars, clubs and restaurant will remain closed. There will be a curfew from 9 p.m. to 7 a.m., except at Christmas and the New Year. Macron said a decision on opening ski and winter sport resorts had not yet been made yet but warned that it looked "impossible to envisage an opening for the holidays." From January 20, a third stage of easing that would allow restaurants to open could go ahead if the number of daily cases stays below 5,000. The President said vaccination for those at highest risk was expected to roll out at the end of December or early January. As Belgium's neighbors begin opening up their stores, the Belgian federation of commerce and services, Comeos, warned the country "will not become an island of closed shops but rather an island of bankrupt shops, while Belgian money is spent abroad." "If everything remains closed with us, everyone will go across the border also for their Christmas shopping," Dominique Michel, CEO of Comeos, said in a statement. According to Comeos, which represents 18 business sectors in Belgium and more than 400,000 employees, half of all Belgians live within 50 kilometers (31 miles) of an international border. Earlier this week, the Belgian National Crisis Centre urged Belgians not to travel abroad over Christmas and New Year, warning trips to neighboring countries would "cancel out our efforts" in reducing the spread of the coronavirus. Belgium's Consultative Committee -- made up of leaders from the three regional governments and federal government -- is due to meet Friday to assess the measures currently in place and discuss ways the country would be able to celebrate Christmas. Belgium's strict lockdown measures were put in place on November 2 and are due to last until December 13. Announcing the lockdown, Prime Minister Alexander de Croo said a decision would be made by December 1 regarding a possible reopening of shops and services. The Irish government is set to ease restrictions for nearly two weeks around the Christmas period and is considering allowing up to three household to gather for the holidays, deputy premier Leo Varadkar told state broadcaster RTE Wednesday. "We know people are going to do it anyway, so it's better we provide for it in a safe way," Varadkar told RTE. Strict restrictions have been in place in Ireland since October, with social gatherings at homes or in gardens banned and restaurants, cafes and bars only open for takeaway. Shops, gyms and hairdressing could be among the first services to reopen, RTE reports, with a timeline for bars and restaurants still under consideration. Meanwhile, Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis said Tuesday he aimed to offer all citizens voluntary free antigen testing for Covid-19 by Christmas, the Czech Health Ministry told CNN. "I would very much like us to meet this challenge to allow all citizens, at least a week or 10 days before Christmas, to be able to be tested voluntarily and for free with antigen tests," Babis said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin hasn't been vaccinated against the coronavirus yet, months after he announced his country's Sputnik V as the "world's first" approved Covid-19 vaccine and said his own daughter had taken it. The Kremlin said Tuesday that Putin cannot get a vaccine that has not yet finished the final stage of trials, even though the jab has already been given to some Russian frontline health care workers, teachers and several top level officials outside the clinical trials. "The President cannot use an uncertified vaccine," Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said during a call with reporters. Peskov did not explain the difference between the vaccine being "certified" and "approved," but said: "Mass vaccination has not started yet. And, of course, the head of state cannot take part in vaccination as a volunteer. It's impossible." Peskov said the trials should be completed soon and that Putin would inform people on his decision on whether to take the vaccine "if he considers it necessary." The news that Putin hasn't taken the vaccine yet came on the same day that Sputnik V's developers published new information about the vaccine, touting it as effective, cheap and easy to transport. The Gamaelya institute, which is developing the vaccine, and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which finances it, reported more interim data on the vaccine on Tuesday. In a news releases, they said that analysis of data obtained 28 days after the first dose and seven days after the second dose suggests the Sputnik vaccine was 91.4% effective in preventing infections. The release said the researchers identified 39 confirmed cases of Covid-19 among the volunteers -- 31 in the placebo group and eight among those who received the vaccine. It added 18,794 volunteers took part in the study. Pfizer and Moderna reported similar efficacy rates -- 94.5% for Moderna and 95% for Pfizer. However, their claims were based on larger sized clinical trials. Moderna reported 95 Covid-19 cases amongst its volunteers -- 90 in the placebo group and 5 in the vaccinated cohort, while Pfizer reported 170 cases -- 162 in the placebo group and eight in the participants who received the vaccine. AstraZeneca announced on Monday that its experimental coronavirus vaccine has shown an average efficacy of 70%. It said a total of 131 study participants developed Covid-19 but did not say how many of those people had received the Covid-19 vaccine and how many did not. In a separate statement, the Gamaelya institute and the RDIF said one dose of the vaccine will cost less than $10 on international markets, which they said was "two or more times cheaper than mRNA vaccines with similar efficacy levels." The two-dose vaccine and vaccination will be free of charge for Russian citizens, the statement added. The Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines are mRNA vaccines. In the statement on Tuesday, Russia also said the Sputnik vaccine can be stored at a temperature of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius, which is similar to what AstraZeneca said about its vaccine on Monday. Meanwhile, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine needs to be kept at around -70 degrees Celsius (-94 degrees Fahrenheit) while it's transported. Moderna said its vaccine can be kept in freezers typically available in pharmacies, and in a refrigerator for 30 days. Putin first announced Russia's vaccine was approved for public use in August, even though at that point it had been tested only on several dozen subjects in a non-blind study. The announcement came before the start of Phase 3 trials, which are key to establishing its safety and efficacy, and drew skepticism from the international community. "I know that it works quite effectively, it forms a stable immunity," Putin said at the time, adding that one of his daughters had already taken the jab -- a rare move from the President, who is notoriously secretive about his family. He said she had a slightly higher temperature after each dose, but added "now she feels well." Putin, at 68 years old, is in a high risk group. Vaccine trials for the first group of volunteers aged 60 and over began on October 28, according to Russian state new agency TASS.
Germany was seen as a beacon for other European countries during the first coronavirus wave and hailed for one of the world's best health care systems. But it is now beginning to struggle with more severe infections than at any other point during the pandemic. Coronavirus infection numbers hit an all-time record Friday, with nearly 24,000 new daily cases recorded -- and so did the number of patients in the country's intensive care units. Official data from the German Interdisciplinary Association for Intensive and Emergency Medicine (DIVI) show that the number of Covid-19 patients in German intensive care units (ICU) has climbed from 267 on September 21 to 3,615 as of November 20 -- a more than 13-fold increase in the space of just two months. Europe's largest economy has gotten through the pandemic fairly well for now compared to its neighboring countries. This in in part due to its high intensive care capacity with 33.9 beds per 100,000 inhabitants; in contrast, Italy has just 8.6. But with Covid cases across the region skyrocketing, even Germany's healthcare system is under strain and hospitals in some areas are increasingly coming close to their limits. Germany's leadership on Friday warned the system could collapse in weeks if the current trajectory continues. "The number of severe cases in intensive patients is still rising. The number of deaths is something that is not really being talked about and it remains very high," said Steffen Seibert, spokesman for Chancellor Angela Merkel. "We have not yet managed to bring the numbers back to a low level. We have basically only managed to get past the first step so far, that is, to stop the strong, steep, exponential increase of infections and we are now stable, but our numbers are still very, very high." Michael Oppert, head of intensive care at the Ernst von Bergmann hospital in Potsdam, just outside Berlin, is equally concerned about the dramatic rise in recent weeks -- and expects things to get worse. "We are not at the tip of the wave now, at least as far as I see," he told a visiting CNN team this week. "And we do have a capacity for a few more patients, but if this carries on at the speed that we are experiencing right now I would imagine that even our hospital, with over 1,000 beds, will come to a point where we have to send patients home or to other hospitals to get treated." Bettina Schade, chief nurse on the Covid ward in the same hospital, described how the ward has changed over the last few weeks. "The numbers of patients have been increasing. We are getting a lot more patients with varying degrees of illness. Both for the normal Covid ward, but many also come to the emergency unit and very quickly have to be put into ICU," she said. "We are currently experiencing having to put a lot of patients from the normal Covid ward into ICU very quickly because patients deteriorate very quickly." This applies even to many younger patients with severe symptoms, said Tillman Schumacher, a senior infectious disease physician. "We have patients of 30 or 40 years here who are on a ventilator and I am not sure if they'll survive." Only two of the 16 ICU beds were vacant and the hospital staff was already canceling non-urgent operations to free up capacity -- as well as making plans to convert more of its general intensive care facilities into Covid units. Dr. Uwe Janssens, head of the DIVI, explained what measures would be taken if the current spike continues. "The regular program of hospitals has to be shut down, a partial closing down of the regular operations and admissions of patients which you can delay for several weeks without any strain, they can be delayed. There are people who don't need an emergency surgery or an emergency catheter or something like that. They can be delayed. And doing this you get the capacity and get the nurses and the physicians to help the ICU physicians and ICU nurses on their wards.'' After taking into account non-Covid patients, 22,066 intensive care beds in the country were occupied as of November 20, while 6,107 remained vacant. Germany has a reserve of about 12,000 ICU beds, including field hospital beds at Berlin's convention center. Despite the large capacity, health minister Jens Spahn earlier this month warned that ICUs could be overwhelmed if daily infection rates continued to rise at the current level. "We are now increasingly seeing a rising burden and the threat of being overwhelmed in intensive care, in hospitals and at GPs," he said in an interview with Germany's state broadcaster ARD. And that could be bad news for all of Europe. Until now, Germany has been taking in Covid patients from neighboring countries whose health care systems are overwhelmed. The German Foreign Office confirmed to CNN that during the first wave of the pandemic, between March 21 and April 12, 232 patients were transferred to Germany for treatment -- 44 of them from Italy, 58 from the Netherlands and 130 from France. In the fall too, the federal states of North-Rhine Westphalia and Saarland offered spaces to 36 patients -- three of them from the Netherlands, 25 from Belgium and eight from France, a Foreign Office spokesperson said. ''These patients have a need for intensive medical care,'' said Anja Wengenroth, a spokeswoman at University Hospital Muenster in Muenster, North Rhine-Westphalia. Her hospital established a system in the spring whereby Benelux countries -- Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg -- could put in a request for ICU beds, a scheme which is ongoing. The North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Affairs confirmed to CNN that currently ''46 hospitals have currently agreed to accept foreign Covid-19 patients. There are currently 76 beds on offer.'' Anne Funk, head of the division of cross-border cooperation in Germany's smallest federal state of Saarland, which borders France, told CNN that during the first wave of the pandemic, its hospitals took in 32 French patients. At the end of October, Saarland offered France eight beds; three patients have been transferred to date. "We would like to help wherever we can," Funk said. "We do not want to differentiate between nationalities. At the moment we still have capacities. We are coordinating with medical and local authorities in France on an individual needs basis. We are here to help.'' For now they can continue to do that, but with Germany's ICUs filling up quickly, it's not clear for how much longer. Germany has recently seen a string of demonstrations against the country's anti-pandemic measures, with many protesters denying the severity of the virus. The country is in a nationwide partial lockdown which requires restaurant and bars to remain closed, people to avoid travel, keep their contacts to an absolute minimum and limit public meetings to members of two different households. Schools and shops have remained open. German federal and state leaders will meet next week to decide on introducing further measures. On Wednesday, thousands of people gathered near the parliament in Berlin while lawmakers inside debated plans for greater legal powers to enforce restrictions. Police used water cannon and tear gas to disperse protesters, many of whom were not wearing face masks. This is considered a slap in the face by frontline medical staff working hard to keep people alive, like Schade. "I also hear some people I know say things like: it's like a flu or can be compared to a regular flu," the chief nurse said. "We just cannot understand people saying that! Of course we all have the fear that maybe at some point we won't make it anymore and could have a situation like they had in Italy where patients are outside in cars and get treated with oxygen because there's no more capacity." Germany is still far away from such scenarios but, while there are still thousands of ICU beds available in the country, Oppert had a message of warning about the second wave of the pandemic and its dynamic. "It is different, it is harder," he said. "We do tend to see more patients now. Not only here in the Berlin/Potsdam region, in which we have a heavy burden of intensive care patients, but nationwide the numbers are climbing and they're still climbing, they are not coming down at the moment."
The head of the Serbian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Irinej, died in a Belgrade hospital on Friday after contracting coronavirus, according to a statement from the church. Irinej, who was 90, led an open-casket funeral service for the church's top cleric in Montenegro, Metropolitan Amfilohije Radović, on November 1. Three days later, Irinej was admitted to hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. Amfilohije's body had been displayed in an open casket during the service before being interred in the crypt of the church in Podgorica, Montenegro. A large crowd had gathered in front of the crowded church, with only a few of the attendees inside the building wearing face coverings. Video of the service showed mourners kissing the deceased cleric's hands and forehead, as is custom. None of the priests, including Irinej, who performed the liturgy, wore masks. On Friday, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic confirmed Irinej's death, posting a photo of him on Instagram with the caption: "I was honored to know you. People like you never depart." An earlier statement from the Serbian Orthodox Church stated that he was intubated after his condition deteriorated on Thursday. Born Miroslav Gavrilovic on August 27, 1930, Irinej was enthroned as the spiritual leader of Eastern Orthodox Serbs in 2010. Serbia's Ministry of Health reported on Thursday that 104,097 people have been infected with coronavirus in the country since the start of the pandemic, with 1,110 deaths. 
The coronavirus situation in Russia remains "challenging but controllable," President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday, as he urged regional governors not to "conceal" the real scale of the struggle with new infections continuing to surge. "In some regions the situation is difficult, let's put that plainly," Putin said in a televised government meeting. "Relatively low numbers of infections in other regions should not calm us down as this could raise issues regarding the quality of detection. "In no way should you try to sugar-coat the situation, it is unacceptable to pretend that everything is fine," Putin added. "Nobody here or locally needs rosy reports and concealed [information]." Putin has previously painted a rosier picture of how Russia is faring in the pandemic, insisting in June that the country's leadership as a whole had managed to protect citizens from the coronavirus. Russia's counting methods for coronavirus-related fatalities have been long scrutinized by independent observers and critics who worry the numbers could be greatly understated. As of Wednesday, Russia had officially reported almost 2 million Covid-19 cases and 34,387 deaths. A CNN investigation based on exclusively obtained videos showing appalling conditions in Russian hospitals and overcrowded morgues, as well as analysis of all-cause mortality data, revealed the real Covid-19 death toll in Russia may be as high as 130,000 casualties. In recent weeks, Russia has experienced a surge of infections as the country reports new records in Covid-19 cases almost daily. "Since October 1, the average daily infection rate across the country increased by 2.5 times, from 6.1 cases to 15.3 cases per 100,000 people," Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova, who is responsible for Russia's coronavirus response, said in the same meeting that Putin made his comments. Across Russia, 81% of hospital beds allocated to coronavirus patients are occupied, with 10 regions reporting that they have exceeded 90% capacity, Golikova added. Golikova also announced that Russia's second coronavirus vaccine, EpiVacCorona, developed by the State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology Vector in Novosibirsk, has already entered Phase 3 of clinical trials, which so far involves 3,000 participants. Vektor previously said it planned to enroll a total of 40,000 people for phase 3 trials and separately test the vaccine on groups of elderly people and children. To date, Russia has registered two coronavirus vaccines ahead of large-scale Phase 3 trials, which are key to establish the product's safety and efficacy, drawing skepticism from the international community. Golikova said Russia was increasing the production of coronavirus vaccines to bring mass vaccination closer. According to her, 58,000 doses of Sputnik V, the first vaccine registered in Russia, have entered circulation among the general population since the vaccine was registered in mid-August. "Timelines that are being submitted to us by production sites say that in November the plan is to introduce 653,000 doses of the vaccine into circulation among the general population and in December [that would be] 2.2 million doses," Golikova said. She did not specify who among the general population would receive the vaccine but Russia has previously said that frontline workers and teachers would be among the first to be vaccinated. In addition to Sputnik V, EpiVacCorona will be supplied in small batches to Russia's regions in the coming weeks, Golikova said. "Vector without waiting for the results of post-registration clinical trials, began producing the vaccine for its introduction into civilian circulation," Golikova said. "We expect that already small volumes will arrive by December 10 to inoculate the population of the Russian Federation." Golikova also reported that 79 out of 85 regions had followed the recommendation of Russia's health regulator, Rospotrebnadzor, to close down bars and restaurants between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. to help limit the spread of the virus.
Sweden has been relying on a relatively more relaxed Covid-19 strategy, but with the coronavirus surging again, front line doctors tell CNN they are frustrated with the lack of tougher measures. 
Covid-19 is spreading faster than ever before in the United States, with hospitals in some states running at capacity. The country is now in the same situation that France, Belgium and the Czech Republic were last month, when rapidly rising infections put their health care systems within weeks of failure. But these countries have managed to avert, for now, the worst-case scenario, in which people die because hospitals are full and they can't access the care they need to survive. They slowed down the epidemics by imposing lockdowns and strict mask mandates. Despite the clear evidence from Europe, the White House is still opposing new restrictions. "President Trump wanted me to make it clear that our task force, this administration and our President, does not support another national lockdown. And we do not support closing schools," Vice President Mike Pence said Thursday, at the first White House coronavirus task force briefing since July. "It's evident that in the US, cases are still rising, or at least they're not going down," said Mike Tildesley, an infectious disease modeling expert at the University Warwick and a UK government scientific adviser. "They need to look at the European situation, and I mean, by no means what we have done in Europe is perfect, these governments are probably reacting a little bit slowly, but they are at least reacting, they are doing what they can to make sure that health services are not overwhelmed... and I think this is clearly what's needed in the US." The Czech Republic is a good example. After a very mild spring epidemic, the country relaxed most of its coronavirus restrictions over the summer, ditching compulsory masks and fully reopening the economy. When cases started rising again in September, the government resisted calls from scientists that tougher measures were needed. By mid-October, the central European country became the world's worst-affected nation, reporting more new Covid-19 cases per million people than any other major country. The government then said it had no other option than to impose a strict mask mandate and shut down, otherwise its hospitals would likely run out of beds. Four weeks later, the country is seeing dramatically lower numbers of new infections. While the health care system has been stretched well beyond its limits -- the country was forced to deploy teenage nursing students in some hospitals -- there seems to be light at the end of the tunnel. But according to official data, around 25% of ICU beds and 45% of ventilators remained available in the Czech Republic, even during the worst of the crisis. Compare that with US states like Oklahoma, where only 6% of ICU beds remain available. The number of cases in the state is rising exponentially -- yet it has put in very few measures to limit the spread of the disease. Starting Thursday, bars and restaurants across the state must maintain a six-feet distance between tables, but can remain open for in-person services until 11 p.m. -- in much of Europe, indoor dining is completely off the menu. Research from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has linked eating at restaurants to higher Covid-19 risk. But when Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer banned indoor dining in an attempt to curb the rising spread of the virus, White House coronavirus task force member Dr. Scott Atlas criticized the move and urged people to "rise up" against the new public health measures. Tildesley said one problem is that the rules across different US states remain inconsistent. "The country is so vast and population density in Nebraska is not the same as New York State for instance or California, so you maybe do need to think about slightly more local action, but the issue is that really those decisions should be made based upon the epidemiology not based upon the political inclinations," he said. Many European countries followed in the Czech footsteps by initially refusing new lockdowns and then going for the nuclear option. Germany and France both announced new national restrictions within hours of each other on October 28. France began its strict lockdown on Friday, October 30, with people banned from leaving their homes without a special certificate. By November 16, the French Health Minister Olivier Veran declared the worst to be over. "Over the last 10 days, there's been a decrease in the number of new Covid-19 cases, and the positivity rate has been declining so everything suggests that we have passed a peak of the epidemic," he said during an interview with regional press group Ebra on Sunday. "It is the fruits of [the French] labor and a result of the measures we have taken to achieve this," Veran said, adding that the positive development doesn't mean the country has defeated the virus yet. Germany, meanwhile, took a softer approach to lockdown. It closed restaurants, bars and clubs, but shops remained open and people were only advised, rather than ordered, to stay home and limit their social contacts. The country didn't see the same slowdown in new cases as France. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said this week that the situation in her country was still "very serious." She pushed for a stricter set of nation-wide restrictions, but was unable to get enough support for that measure from state governments. On Friday morning, Germany reported a new record number of daily coronavirus infections over the past 24 hours. The success of a lockdown also depends on the willingness of people to follow the rules. "If the rules are very very strict, then it's a lot harder for people to sort of 'get around' those rules and if the restrictions are a little bit more mild, then it opens the floodgates potentially for people to be not compliant by the rules," Tildesley said. Germany and France were seeing similar spikes in their reproduction number in mid to late-October. Known as R, the number indicates how many other people each infected person passes the virus onto -- in this case, both France and Germany reported the number went as high as 1.5. After the lockdown went into effect, France's R rate fell significantly, dropping below 1 -- a crucial level that indicates the epidemic is shrinking -- on November 6 and dropped further since then, according to data from the French Public Health Agency. In Germany, meanwhile, the number has dropped to 1, but continued to hover around that level, according to the Robert Koch Institute, Germany's Center for Disease Control. But while R is useful, it doesn't tell the whole story. Dr. Oliver Watson, an infectious diseases researcher at Imperial College London said that another reason why France is seeing a reduction is because the country had a much higher transmission rate to start with. "This includes the much larger first wave but also their second wave started taking off earlier, most likely because their infection levels were larger during the summer," he said. Watson and his colleagues at Imperial modeled the impact of lockdowns of various lengths and strengths on ICU capacities in Germany, France and Italy and found, broadly, that from an epidemiological point of view it is more beneficial to impose lockdowns early, rather than wait and then make them last longer. Germany had also experienced a milder first wave of the virus, meaning there might be more people still susceptible to it. The problem: despite their earlier experiences, many governments are still making decisions based on politics, not science. "I remember the situation with the Czech Republic, that was an indicator that other countries needed to be on guard and start to prepare for early controls ... and we can go back to the first wave and we can again see that there were early warning signs that we needed to consider greater controls and they were there probably about two weeks before the [UK] government introduced lockdown," Tildesley said. Politicians are reluctant to impose lockdowns because of their undeniable negative effects, be it on the economy or people's mental health. But scientists like Tildesley say the repeated European experience shows the effect of this is even more damaging. "It's essentially Groundhog Day," he said. "The scientific community is pushing for this and by the time the governments decide, it's two to three weeks after we were pushing for it and the waiting makes it much worse. Lessons really, really do need to be learned."