After a series of last-minute holdups, the Senate just passed a one-week stop-gap funding bill by voice vote to avert a government shutdown at midnight tonight. The bill will next go to President Trump for his signature. The short-term spending bill would extend government funding by a week to Dec. 18 and is aimed at giving lawmakers more time to reach an agreement on Covid relief and broader funding legislation for a new fiscal year. It passed the House earlier this week. The Senate needed to pass the short-term government funding bill sometime during the day Friday ahead of the funding expiration deadline to avert a shutdown, but lawmakers have been dealing with a series of holdups that had thrown a timeline for a vote into question.
Los Angeles County has recorded a record number of new Covid-19 cases for a second straight day, raising the total number of residents in the nation's most populous county who have tested positive to more than a half-million, in what health officials called "uncharted territory." "We're on a very dangerous track to see unprecedented and catastrophic suffering and death here in L.A. County if we can't stop the surge," Public Health Director Dr. Barbara Ferrer said. The Los Angeles County Department of Public Health reported 13,815 new cases of Covid-19 Friday, raising the countywide total to 501,635 cases. Another 50 deaths linked to complications from the coronavirus were also reported, for a total of 8,199 fatalities. "These numbers are overwhelming," Ferrer said. "We have doubled the number of new cases in about 10 days." Los Angeles County reported 12,819 cases Thursday, the previous record high in a dramatic surge of new infections sending a rising number of new patients to hospitals. Ferrer warned the unprecedented number of new cases in Los Angeles County is putting "extraordinary stress" on the health care system, and pleaded with the public to "stay home as much as possible. Covid-19 restrictions: L.A. County's 10 million residents are under a nightly curfew and Gov. Gavin Newsom's stay-at-home order after the region's intensive care unit capacity plunged below 15% and continues to quickly dwindle. In Southern California, just 6.2% ICU capacity remained Friday. The dire situation comes just days before the county expects to receive an initial shipment of 82,875 doses of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine early next week. "I want to sound an alarm that we've been sounding for the last month," Ferrer said. "In L.A. County we're in uncharted territory at this point. We're seeing daily numbers of cases and hospitalizations that we have not experienced and frankly did not anticipate."
The platform the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will use for all Covid-19 vaccine ordering, called VTrckS, already has more than 20,000 pharmacy providers enrolled in preparation to distribute and administer vaccines quickly, CDC’s Dr. Nancy Messonnier said on Friday. "In preparing to distribute and administer the Covid vaccine quickly and efficiently, CDC has worked with our many partners in state and local health departments and throughout the country," Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said during a meeting of the CDC's Advisory Community on Immunization Practices. "Forty-one thousand Covid-19 providers are enrolled in VTrckS," Messonnier said. "That includes more than 20,000 pharmacy providers, and many of those pharmacy providers will help us to reach the 55,000 long-term care facilities, covering more than 3.5 million persons that have been enrolled in our federal pharmacy partnership." ACIP is having a half-day meeting Friday to discuss the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine.
Erin Bromage, a biology professor at UMass Dartmouth, advised Americans to not have any large gatherings on Christmas, even if they gathered for Thanksgiving and had no resulting positive Covid-19 cases. You should stay close to only the family members or group that you’ve been in contact with for the past 10 days, he said in an interview on CNN. “We are looking much worse than what we were at Thanksgiving, much worse. And so now the risk is much higher,” Bromage said. “And you got away with it at Thanksgiving because you were lucky it didn't come into your home. If you do this again…you're chancing too much fate at this stage bringing it into your house.” Bromage also explained the “Swiss cheese model” of protection from the coronavirus. “No one protective layer is 100% effective,” he said. “Masks plus distance is additive in regards to its safety. If we're in well-ventilated spaces, that adds another layer of safety. … We make sure that we put as many layers as possible between each person in order to stop the spread of infection.” 
Vaccine advisers to the US Food and Drug Administration voted Thursday to recommend the agency grant emergency use authorization to Pfizer and BioNTech's coronavirus vaccine, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices is set to meet this weekend to consider if the CDC should offer the vaccine to the American public. But even as the vaccine process progresses, it's likely the US won't see any meaningful, widespread impacts from vaccinations until well into 2021. Just how quickly the country will be able to recover depends on how quickly Americans get vaccinated — and how many people are willing to get the vaccine. "If we have a smooth vaccination program where everybody steps to the plate quickly, we could get back to some form of normality, reasonably quickly. Into the summer, and certainly into the fall," Dr. Anthony Fauci told CNN Thursday. "My hope and my projection is that if we get people vaccinated en masse so that we get that large percentage of the population, as we get into the fall, we can get real comfort about people being in schools, safe in school — be that K-12, or college," he added.
The 116th Congress is entering a make-or-break moment: It can either collapse in a colossal failure or it can all come together quickly to give struggling Americans some desperately needed relief. And now there's a possibility this Congress can end how it began: in a government shutdown. While there are some signs of progress on state and local aid in bipartisan relief talks, prospects are still grim for Congress to get a deal both sides can live with, get drafted quickly and jammed through Congress — and then onto the desk of a mercurial President who has had no role in the negotiations but can upend them at any given moment. Here's what we're watching today: Leaders need to start talking: To get a deal done by next week, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell need to come to terms quickly. But they aren't even talking with each other and instead are bitterly trading blame as the leadership remains at sharp odds about what can even pass, meaning there's no guarantee any deal reached by a bipartisan group of lawmakers will even get through Congress. Why today is crucial: Friday is turning out to be a critical day on two fronts: Both on the Covid relief talks and to keep the government from shutting down for the fourth time in President Trump's time in office. Sticking points on stimulus: The snafu over the stopgap portends the challenges ahead for much thornier issues — namely on a Covid relief package that has dogged Congress for several months in addition to the $1.4 trillion omnibus spending bill to fund the federal government through September 2021, a massive proposal that the two sides have struggled to finalize, prompting leaders to try to pass the week-long continuing resolution. The bipartisan group of senators and House members that have tried to finalize a deal are expected to release legislative language today on their $160 billion deal to aid states and cities hit hard by the pandemic, resolving a key sticking point, aides said. But there's one big problem: Most GOP senators detest that aid — and McConnell has warned that most Republicans won't support it, meaning it's unlikely to pass the Senate.
Starting this weekend, the city of Miami will begin enforcing a citywide curfew in response to the surge in coronavirus cases, the city announced in a press release. The nightly curfew will run from midnight to 6 a.m. ET until further notice, the release stated. The curfew is in line with Miami-Dade County's existing nightly curfew order and was voted and approved by the Miami City Commission on Thursday. The city of Miami stopped enforcing the curfew back in October. However, under the new order, the Miami Police Department will be enforcing the curfew and violators — whether individuals or business establishments — are subject to fines and other enforcement actions.
After some drama, the Senate is about to pass the weeklong stopgap by voice vote, aides tell CNN. This would keep the government open until Dec. 18 The stopgap measure comes at a make-or-break moment where Congress is working to come together quickly to give struggling Americans some desperately needed relief. While there are some signs of progress on state and local aid in bipartisan relief talks, prospects are still grim for Congress to get a deal both sides can live with, get drafted quickly and jammed through Congress — and then onto the desk of a mercurial President who has had no role in the negotiations but can upend them at any given moment.
A biotech conference in Boston in February that’s already been flagged as a Covid-19 superspreading event led to at least 245,000 other cases across the US and Europe, a new genetic fingerprinting study shows. One single case seems to have been responsible for 245,000 other eventual cases, the team at the Broad Institute in Massachusetts reported. Their study finds two particular genetic fingerprints of viruses associated with the conference and then tracks those lineages across the US. One “was exported from Boston to at least 18 US states as well as to other countries, including Australia, Sweden, and Slovakia,” the team, led by Bronwyn MacInnis, director of pathogen genomic surveillance at the Broad Institute, wrote in the journal Science. One was especially bad. A virus carrying one mutation – a small genetic change they’ve flagged as C2416T – was apparently carried to the conference by a single person, and ended up infecting 245,000 people. A second viral strain with a mutation known as G26233T ended up in 88,000 people. “A single introduction had an outsize effect on subsequent transmission because it was amplified by superspreading in a highly mobile population very early in the outbreak, before many public health precautions were put in place,” the team wrote. “While Massachusetts accounted for most early spread related to the conference, Florida accounted for the greatest proportion of cases overall,” they added. “We think this is an important cautionary tale of the downstream implications of superspreading, which is all the more relevant as we enter the peak of the holiday season, and begin rolling out vaccines that may not decrease transmission,” MacInnis told CNN. Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly described the number of coronavirus cases that can be linked to the conference. At least 245,000 cases are linked to the mutation, and another 88,000 cases are a subset of those 245,000 cases.
Newly released data from the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) shows more than 85% of hospitals nationwide had more patients with Covid-19 last week than they did a month ago. Overall, about 1 in 5 hospital inpatients were confirmed to have Covid-19 last week – nearly double from a month earlier. Among America’s 10 largest cities, the share of hospital patients with Covid-19 ranged from about 9% in New York to 23% in Chicago. They are: New York, 9%; Los Angeles, 16%; Chicago, 23%; Houston, 11%; Phoenix, 22%; Philadelphia, 22%; San Antonio, 16%; San Diego, 16%; Dallas, 20%; San Jose, 19%. But in smaller cities the situation can be even worse. In El Paso, Texas, for example, more than 50% of patients in city hospitals were confirmed to have Covid-19 – nearly double the national average for the seven-day period between November 27 and December 3. HHS had previously reported Covid-19 hospitalization data at the state level, but this dataset – released Monday – is the first from the national government to report local, facility-level data.
The US Food and Drug Administration’s approval of an emergency use authorization for Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine is “really a monumental moment,” Dr. Leana Wen, a CNN medical analyst and emergency room physician, said Friday. “I think it’s really amazing,” Wen, the former Baltimore health commissioner, told CNN’s Chris Cuomo. “We need to take a moment, I think, and just consider that we are having this mass casualty event every day here in the US, but now we have this vaccine developed in record time that can in time really save us and save our country and save the world from this awful pandemic. And this is really a monumental moment for us." “We also need to make sure that every safeguard was followed, and that's what all these scientists and all these committees are here to do,” she added. FDA vaccine advisers met Thursday and voted to recommend an EUA for the vaccine. Now the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices will meet Saturday. The CDC committee must vote to recommend the vaccine, and the agency must accept that recommendation, in order for vaccinations to begin.
The influential coronavirus model at the University of Washington has projected 502,000 Americans will have died from Covid-19 by April 1, down from its prediction of 539,000 deaths last week. The model from the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation predicts a new coronavirus vaccine can save 25,000 or more lives. And if 95% of Americans wore masks, the death count would drop by 56,000 by April 1 compared to the “most likely” scenario. On the other hand, if states ease coronavirus mandates, the model projects 598,000 cumulative deaths by April 1. “Moreover, the impact of vaccinations is greater as well because of the detailed information in the Pfizer FDA filing, showing approximately 50% protection after the first dose, and data on a larger number of doses available sooner in the US,” IHME said. The model projects 25,200 lives will be saved by the vaccine rollout and if the distribution occurs rapidly, 44,500 lives could be saved compared to a no-vaccine scenario. The Covid-19 epidemic in the Midwest is leveling off but is increasing on the West Coast and in the Northeast, IHME said.
The United States could be back to normal by next summer or early fall if everyone gets a Covid-19 vaccine, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, predicted Thursday. "It depends how quickly and how many people want to get vaccinated," Fauci told CNN’s Chris Cuomo. "If we have a smooth vaccination program where everybody steps to the plate quickly, we could get back to some form of normality reasonably quickly into the summer and certainly into the fall." The US Food and Drug Administration’s Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee voted to recommend emergency-use authorization (EUA) for Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine Thursday. The FDA is expected to approve an EUA for the vaccine in the next couple of days. "My hope and my projection is that if we get people vaccinated en masse so that we get that large percentage of the population, as we get into the fall, we can get real comfort about people being in schools, safe in school," Fauci said. "That's what I hope and project we would do if we get everybody vaccinated."
The US Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission said Thursday they had warned Paradigm RE, LLC for selling unapproved products that claim to mitigate, prevent, treat, diagnose or cure Covid-19. The FDA said it considers the product, which the company sells under the name “Thymosin Alpha 1,” an unapproved new drug sold in violation of US law. It is also misbranded. The company’s website implies Thymosin Alpha 1 was tested in government-designated treatment centers and helps with treatment. The website claims “the findings were that there was a significant reduction of mortality in the 28-day variation” because it improved oxygen levels in the bloodstream and reduced lung injury, according to the FDA. The FDA asked the company to stop selling the product immediately and gave it 48 hours to email the government and describe what specific steps it took to correct violations.
The US Food and Drug Administration is likely to recommend against giving pregnant women the upcoming Pfizer vaccine, a member of the FDA’s Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee said Thursday. Dr. Paul Offit's comments came after the committee voted to recommend the vaccine for an emergency use authorization (EUA). “I think the recommendation will be that pregnant women not receive this vaccine until we know more,” Offit told CNN’s Wolf Blitze. “However, as shown in this trial, whenever you do any sort of large clinical trial, invariably you do get pregnant women because women don't find out they're pregnant until after they've gotten one or two doses. So, there were about two dozen women in this trial that were pregnant and there doesn't appear to be any harmful effects on them, but their babies haven’t been born yet to find out.” Offit said this will also happen when the vaccine rolls out to health care workers and people in long-term care facilities. Some of those vaccinated will invariably include pregnant women. The committee voted 17-4, with one abstention, in favor of recommending the FDA grant Pfizer an EUA. The FDA will now decide whether to accept the recommendation but has signaled that it will issue the EUA for the vaccine.
President Trump has signed a one-week stopgap funding bill by voice vote to avert a government shutdown at midnight. The bill was passed by the Senate earlier Friday. Some background: The short-term spending bill would extend government funding by a week to Dec. 18 and is aimed at giving lawmakers more time to reach an agreement on Covid relief and broader funding legislation for a new fiscal year. It passed the House earlier this week. So far, however, stimulus talks remain at an impasse over critical sticking points, creating uncertainty over whether an agreement can be reached. Lawmakers now have just one additional week to work out thorny issues that are currently holding up an agreement or potentially witness the collapse of the talks.
The influential coronavirus model at the University of Washington has projected 502,000 Americans will have died from Covid-19 by April 1, down from its prediction of 539,000 deaths last week. The model from the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation predicts a new coronavirus vaccine can save 25,000 or more lives. And if 95% of Americans wore masks, the death count would drop by 56,000 by April 1 compared to the “most likely” scenario. On the other hand, if states ease coronavirus mandates, the model projects 598,000 cumulative deaths by April 1. “Moreover, the impact of vaccinations is greater as well because of the detailed information in the Pfizer FDA filing, showing approximately 50% protection after the first dose, and data on a larger number of doses available sooner in the US,” IHME said. The model projects 25,200 lives will be saved by the vaccine rollout and if the distribution occurs rapidly, 44,500 lives could be saved compared to a no-vaccine scenario. The Covid-19 epidemic in the Midwest is leveling off but is increasing on the West Coast and in the Northeast, IHME said.
When President Donald Trump emerged from a three-night hospital stay for his coronavirus infection, he made a vow in a videotaped on the White House South Lawn. "I want everybody to be given the same treatment as your president because I feel great. I feel, like, perfect," Trump said. "I think this was a blessing from God that I caught it. This was a blessing in disguise." Two months later, Trump has helped some people receive the experimental treatments his doctors administered him while ill: his close friends and associates, many of whom contracted the virus while ignoring recommendations to mitigate its spread. The presidential involvement has not extended to millions of other Americans who contracted the virus as well, straining hospitals and requiring health professionals to decide who can receive the most promising treatments, supplies of which are severely limited. While Trump has pressed the US Food and Drug Administration to approve the treatments quickly, he has not yet ensured that "everybody" can receive them for free. As he remains consumed by his election loss, the President has barely mentioned the surge in cases, and did not comment on Wednesday when the US death toll reached its highest daily count. He's been more active when people he knows get sick. Trump personally intervened to ensure Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson received the same monoclonal antibody therapy that he did during his stay at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. "President Trump was following my condition and cleared me" for the drugs, Carson wrote on Facebook upon recovering. "President Trump, the fabulous White House medical team, and the phenomenal doctors at Walter Reed have been paying very close attention to my health." The President's White House doctor was also dispatched to convince Rudy Giuliani to enter the hospital when he fell ill with the virus last week. When he did, he, too, was administered the drug cocktail the President has credited with saving his life. "I didn't really want to go to the hospital, and he said, 'Don't be stupid,'" Giuliani recalled in an interview with WABC Radio this week of his conversation with Dr. Sean Conley, the White House physician. "We can get it over with in three days if we send you to the hospital." Another of Trump's close allies, former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, also received an experimental antibody treatment ahead of its emergency use authorization by the FDA. All four men -- Trump, Carson, Giuliani and Christie -- fall within high-risk categories for people more likely to suffer severe symptoms of Covid-19. And all have at times ignored recommendations on masks and social distancing that Trump himself has downplayed as the pandemic ravages the country. "It's wrong. It's flat-out wrong, it's unethical and it shouldn't be going on," said Art Caplan, the founding head of the Division of Medical Ethics at New York University School of Medicine. "We could make the case the President is an essential worker and we'll bump him or her up to the top of some list. But when you have people rationing scarce drugs, antibodies, when you have people rationing beds in certain places around the country -- and that's going to continue -- being a celebrity shouldn't count. Being a highly visible politician shouldn't count. It shouldn't count who you're connected to. What should count is need." Like Trump, who received the Regeneron antibody cocktail while at Walter Reed, his associates received drugs that aren't yet widely available to the American public, despite the President's vow to make them free to anybody who needs them. That has left health officials in states with the task of deciding who can receive the treatments that, by his own admission, saved Trump's life and likely helped his close associates recover. In November, the FDA granted an emergency use authorization for Regeneron's antibody cocktail to treat high-risk patients with mild to moderate disease. But the company's chief executive said in a statement at the time that demand may initially exceed supply. The company said it would have enough doses for 80,000 patients by the end of November, and 200,000 patients by the first week of January. Since then, however, cases have spiked. This week, more than 200,000 new cases have been identified daily. More than 278,000 courses of the two antibody treatments that have received emergency use authorization to treat Covid-19 have gone out to medial facilities, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar told reporters on Wednesday. Azar, who spoke at an Operation Warp Speed briefing, said that the administration is working to send out more. For now, with the limited number of doses, states that have a larger share of the country's total number of confirmed Covid-19 patients, as well as those regions with a larger total of confirmed hospitalized patients, will be given priority in distributing the treatments. The logistics of distributing the antibody treatments are complex. Patients get the treatment through an infusion that takes an hour and needs to be done at a health care facility that has access to emergency treatment in case there are problems. The patient then needs to stay for another hour for observation. Federal officials have acknowledged the distribution of these treatments won't be easy. "We anticipate that initially, there'll be challenges for the health care system in administering IV infusions to infected patients," Dr. Janet Woodcock, the head of therapeutics for the administration's Operation Warp Speed, said at a briefing in November. She said the government had developed and distributed a playbook in conjunction with the drug's manufacturers to help health care providers think through the challenges, and figure out the best way to set up infusion centers. But concerns linger about the inherent inequities in distributing a treatment that is in short supply as cases surge around the country. Already, coronavirus has exposed deep rifts in how Americans access health care that have fallen along existing racial and socio-economic fault lines. The openness with which Trump and his allies have used their influence to access promising but scarce treatments only exacerbates the impression that quality health care is easier to access for powerful people. "You know we have an unfair system. Jimmying the resources brings out how unfair the system has actually been all along," Caplan said. For his part, Giuliani seemed unconcerned that his status as a well-known figure might have influenced his care. Instead, he leaned into it. "Sometimes, when you're a celebrity, they're worried if something happens to you they're going to examine it more carefully, and do everything right," he said in his radio interview this week.
The National Hurricane Center and other NOAA agencies are among those essential organizations that are trying to protect their employees from Covid-19 so they can keep working and putting out life-saving information for American families. The problem isn't so much with normal, day-to-day operations, but rather with big events, when staffing at National Weather Service (NWS) offices can often double or triple what it normally is. "Normal staff for our office is about 2-4 people depending on the shift, but during big events such as tornado outbreaks and tropical systems our staff could surge to 7-8 people," explains Kyle Thiem, meteorologist at NWS Atlanta office. Yet adding more people into an enclosed space creates problems in a world with Covid-19. So how do they allow for the added staff while not compromising their safety or the life-saving information they put out? "We took steps early to protect the facility to ensure a safe environment for our staff," says Dennis Feltgen, a communications officer for NOAA. "We have also followed the guidelines on distancing, both at workstations and common areas, and we will continue to do our best to keep our staff safe and ready as the hurricane season continues." In some cases, having the employees work from home is also an option. "Non-essential duties are being handled remotely," shares Maureen O'Leary, spokeswoman for the National Weather Service. "To minimize cross contamination within an office we are staggering shift changeovers and doing "remote" hand offs wherever possible. A forecaster completing a shift and one arriving for the next shift exit and enter through different doors to minimize any contact. The health and well-being of our workforce is our top priority." This hurricane season is likely to be a more active one than usual. It has already been a record-breaking hurricane season, and we haven't even reached the peak, which generally falls on September 10th. In addition to keeping their staff safe during coronavirus, NOAA has also added information to its normal forecast guidance to the public. The most discernible is its updated hurricane preparedness checklist to include two new items: a face mask and hand sanitizer. Many offices have also been vocal about finding your hurricane shelter location ahead of time, since some shelter locations may have changed from previous years due to Covid-19. For example, smaller shelters used before, may be moved to larger facilities to allow for more adequate social distancing. Coronavirus isn't just impacting the employees, but also the forecasts themselves. The forecasts that meteorologists create for hurricanes rely in part on computer models. These models are only as good as the data that is put into them. This data comes from a variety of tools, including aircraft, cruise ships, satellites, buoys, weather balloons, ground stations, and radar. The Covid-19 outbreak has significantly reduced the amount of data we get from two of those tools -- aircraft and cruises. So meteorologists are at a disadvantage, especially over water, where these observation tools are already limited. Over land, they can launch extra weather balloons or add additional ground stations to help make up the loss of flight data. But they can't do that over water. Buoys are unevenly distributed and are notorious for data errors. These floating devices alone can't provide a complete and accurate picture of a particular region of the ocean. Meteorologists need the combination of all available tools to accurately understand the state of the atmosphere across the globe at a given point in time. According to the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), if all flight data was gone, the accuracy of forecast models would decrease by as much as 15%.
Columbia University says it has temporarily banned at least 70 students for violating the New York City school's Covid-19 travel policy. The MBA students traveled to Turks and Caicos, according to Columbia University spokesman Christopher Cashman. That violated the school's Covid-19 health compact, a protocol which restricts any official or organized group travel until further notice, Cashman said. "The Turks & Caicos trip was a group event that violated this policy and thus was met with disciplinary action," Cashman said. Coronavirus case counts are surging, with 2.7 million new infections since the beginning of November. Friday alone saw more than 195,500, the most in a single day yet. More than 250,000 Americans have died from Covid-19. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also recommends that Americans should not travel for Thanksgiving, and has posted updated guidelines for safely celebrating the holiday. Cashman said the students can't enter campus until December 1. They must complete their academic obligations by attending class virtually. If the students violate the policy again, they are subject to harsher discipline, Cashman said. "All of this is being done to protect the broader health of our community and, thankfully, to date our positive case rate remains low," Cashman said.
Major League Baseball postponed Sunday's scheduled game between the Oakland Athletics and Houston Astros "out of an abundance of caution" following a positive Covid-19 test in the Athletics' organization. MLB said additional testing and contact tracing will be conducted. The game was set to be played at Minute Maid Park in Houston. The Athletics said they learned on Sunday that the member tested positive but declined to give any further information on the person's identity or status. "The team conducted testing and contact tracing for the entire traveling party this morning and will self-isolate in Houston with recommended safety precautions in place," the team said. The Athletics are just the latest MLB team to report a Covid-19 case since the shortened season began in July. So far this season, the Miami Marlins and St. Louis Cardinals had extensive outbreaks that led to the postponement of a number of games, while the New York Mets and Cincinnati Reds have also reported cases. MLB's decision to postpone the Athletics-Astros after one positive test reflects its more aggressive approach toward stomping out potential Covid-19 outbreaks. Earlier in the season, MLB allowed the Marlins to continue playing games even after reporting several Covid-19 cases. Those cases then spiraled into a team-wide outbreak in which more than a dozen Marlins players tested positive for Covid-19.
A college student and former high school basketball player has died from Covid-19, highlighting the virus's danger even toward the young and healthy. Chad Dorrill, a 19-year-old sophomore at Appalachian State University in North Carolina, died this week after complications from Covid-19, according to the university. He was diagnosed with the virus earlier in September. Dorrill lived off campus, and all of his classes were online. The university did not say how he contracted the virus. "When he began feeling unwell earlier this month, his mother encouraged him to come home, quarantine, and be tested for COVID-19," Sheri Everts, chancellor of App State, said in an announcement to the university community. "After testing positive for COVID-19 in his home county, he followed isolation procedures and was cleared by his doctor to return to Boone." When he returned to school, Dorrill began experiencing further difficulties, Everts said. His family then picked him up, and he was hospitalized. "Despite generally being at lower risk for severe illness, college-age adults can become seriously ill from COVID-19. As we approach the halfway mark to the last day of classes for the Fall semester, we are seeing a rise in COVID-19 cases in students," Everts warned. Classes -- a mix of online and in-person -- began in August. Since March 27, more than 600 people at the university have contracted the virus, according to the school's tally. Dorrill is not the first undergraduate student to die from Covid-19, but his death raises even more urgent questions around the safety of college campuses, even as universities urge safety measures amidst reopening. CNN reached out to Dorrill's family for comment, but has not immediately received a response. Liam Dunman, a student at App State, said the death "definitely resonated" with him. "You don't hear about people our age dying from it at all, so it definitely got a little bit more real for me," he told CNN affiliate WSOC. In the state of North Carolina, there have only been five reported deaths from Covid-19 in people ages 24 and under and more than 56,000 confirmed cases, according to the state's Department of Health and Human Services.
The Ohio State University announced it will cancel spring break next semester in an effort to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the university community. In a letter Friday to students, faculty and staff, Executive Vice President and Provost Bruce A. McPheron said the university would instead have two instructional breaks with no classes on February 9 and March 31. "This approach will keep our community together throughout the semester and reduce travel-related exposures," McPheron explained. One OSU student told CNN affiliate WSYX that he was disappointed but understood the reasoning behind the decision. "Definitely not the best news to hear, but I think it's the smarter decision," he said, adding, "It allows kids to just stay in their dorms or in their off-campus housing and just stay safe." As of Thursday, OSU has reported 2,097 student cases of Covid-19, with a test positivity rate of about 3.9%, according to the university's Covid-19 dashboard. Earlier this year, while the country was still experiencing the initial wave of coronavirus, some students and their families opted to stay home to stay safe. But others ignored warnings and flocked to beaches. One college spring break trip to a Mexican beach resort in mid-March ultimately led to 64 cases of Covid-19, according to University of Texas at Austin researchers. OSU is just weeks into the fall semester after beginning a mix of in-person and online classes on August 25, but McPheron said he wanted to shed light on the upcoming spring semester so students, faculty and staff could plan ahead. OSU plans to stick with a blend of in-person and online classes next semester, but the first week of classes beginning January 11 will be held online to allow people "ample time to quarantine prior to any in-person sessions." "While there were many adjustments to our plans over the summer, we hope that our experience this semester will allow for a smoother and more predictable plan heading into spring semester," McPheron wrote. OSU will continue to explore how to expand in-person activities in the spring, but those decisions will be dependent on the status of Covid-19 in the community, McPheron's message said. "As a default," he added, "all students, faculty and staff should expect the same sort of comprehensive approach that is in place this fall -- including testing, contact tracing and personal behaviors such as face masks, physical distancing and hand-washing."
The New York State Nurses Association (NYSNA) filed three lawsuits Monday challenging the "failures" of the New York State Department of Health (DOH) and two New York hospitals, Montefiore Medical Center and Westchester Medical Center, alleging the entities aren't doing enough to protect nurses treating Covid-19 patients. All three suits allege shortcomings such as inadequate personal protective equipment, a lack of training for registered nurses redeployed from hospital units to meet the staffing needed to treat the high number of Covid-19 patients and unsafe working conditions for high-risk employees. "More than seven in ten of our nurses are reporting exposure to Covid-19 and most are still untested. These lawsuits were filed to protect our nurses, our patients and our communities from grossly inadequate and negligent protections," NYSNA Executive Director Pat Kane said in a news release. "We cannot allow these dangerous practices to continue." The New York State Nurses Association has 42,000 members, according to the court documents. So far nearly 1,000 union members have tested positive, including at least 150 at Montefiore, according to the filing. At least 84 nurses in the union have been hospitalized with the virus, and at least six nurses are known to have died from the virus after contracting Covid-19 while working, court documents say. In a lawsuit filed against the New York State Department of Health, the nurses union requested an injunction from the New York Supreme Court ​alleging multiple failures to protect the health of nurses, patients and the public. The suit seeks to enforce Gov. ​Andrew Cuomo's April 13 "directive" that each direct care nurse be given at least one N95 respirator daily. The suit also cites a Department of Health advisory that spells out conditions that would allow health care personnel to return to work seven days after the onset of Covid-19 symptoms. The suit is asking the Department of Health to rescind that advisory and issue a new one. "The DOH's dereliction of its statutory charge has created a public nuisance, as New York's hospitals have turned into petri dishes where the virus is allowed to spread, unchecked by basic protective equipment and measures," attorneys for the union said in a memorandum of law in support of a temporary injunction and temporary restraining order. The lawsuit asks the court to issue a preliminary injunction directing the department of health to rescind all directives instructing hospitals to require sick nurses to return from quarantine in less than 14 days if they still are symptomatic and order ​the department to fulfill its statutory mandate to ensure that nurses have adequate protective equipment and other appropriate safety measures to protect them from contracting Covid-19. Jonah Bruno, the director of communications for the New York State Department of Health, declined to comment on the pending litigation. "We are deeply grateful for the ongoing efforts of New York's health care workers to reduce the spread of Covid-19 by testing people who may be infected and treating those who are most in need," Bruno said in a statement to CNN. "The State of New York continues to take every step necessary to ensure that health care workers, particularly those who are sampling and providing direct care, have the support and supplies needed to address this unprecedented public health emergency."​ A complaint filed by the Nurses Association in federal court for the Southern District of New York says the union is bringing a lawsuit on behalf of ​the approximately 3,000 nurses it represents at the Montefiore Medical Center, alleging the nurses are facing workplace hazards that are causing or are likely to cause "imminent death or serious physical harm" as they work to treat patients during the Covid-19 pandemic. The suit alleges the hospital system is not providing enough personal protective equipment like masks, inadequate Covid-19 testing, and ​is requiring nurses who have been given isolation orders to use their own paid time off, rather than what they describe as the state-mandated paid leave. They also say Montefiore is requiring nurses to return to work after seven, rather than 14, days of quarantine. "Right now, the Hospital is like a war zone," the suit alleges. "The RNs there are treating large numbers of very sick and frightened patients, and are doing so with inadequate and often ill-fitting equipment, often in rooms that have not been properly converted to deal with Covid-19 patients, often working while they are sick because they have been forced back to work too early, often in practice areas where they have never been trained, and generally without adequate testing to ensure they are fit to work without infecting others." "NYSNA leadership has chosen to attack a system, and the commitment of thousands of their colleagues, who have followed the Governor's emergency orders and are selflessly doing all they can to fight Covid-19 and save lives," a Montefiore spokesperson told CNN. The suit asks for relief from the court, since the union and hospital are currently in arbitration, and by the time any decisions are made "it will be too late to remedy the harms" caused by the hospital system. The suit asks for the hospital to provide an adequate number of protective masks like N-95 respirators that are not re-used day after day, nonpermeable gowns and negative pressure rooms so that disease-infected air doesn't linger, or air filters to cleanse the air of particles of the virus. The suit also asks for the hospital system to provide leave for nurses so that they are not forced to work while sick with Covid-19 symptoms, as well as coronavirus testing on demand for nurses. A lawsuit filed against the corporation that runs the Westchester Medical Center on behalf of 1,600 registered nurses who work there claims the nurses are experiencing "severe and pervasive workplace hazards that are causing or are likely to cause the ​nurses​ imminent death or serious physical harm." NYSNA met with WMC officials January 28 to discuss preparedness measures, according to the filing. The lawsuit alleges that in that meeting WMC officials ​"assured NYSNA that they were making all necessary plans to prepare for the virus." The nurses are sent into the "war zone" without adequate resources, the lawsuit says. The lawsuit details complaints from nurses at the hospital alleging the hospital is rationing N-95 masks and gowns, failing to properly train nurses redeployed to other departments and in some units failing to properly ventilate Covid-19 patient areas to minimize exposure risk. The lawsuit also claims WMC officials have refused to reassign pregnant nurses to units that do not treat Covid-19 patients, unless the pregnancy has entered the third trimester. The suit alleges the hospital system is not providing enough personal protective equipment such as masks​, provides inadequate Covid-19 testing and grants ​insufficient sick days for nurses to recover after getting sick with the contagious virus. The suit also alleges the hospital system required nurses to use personal sick leave time when they start to experience Covid-19 symptoms. In order to access the emergency sick leave guaranteed under New York law, ​the lawsuit claims the hospital requires nurses to obtain an individual order from their county's department of health. A spokesperson for the hospital said they cannot comment on pending litigation, but said the allegations are wrong. "We know, and our care providers know, that the allegations in NYSNA's lawsuit are wrong," ​the spokesperson for Westchester Medical Center Health Network said in a statement to CNN. "Our focus is, and has always been, protecting our workforce, which has been aligned from the outset in treating the most severely ill patients battling Covid-19. NYSNA's lawsuit is irresponsible and a distraction from this work, and a disservice to all who are valiantly caring for these patients every day." The union asks the court in the lawsuit to issue a declaration that Westchester Medical Center is violating state labor law and compel the hospital to address the concerns. The lawsuit also asks the court to compel the hospital to stop refusing statutory medical leave and allow union members to freely speak to the media.
The House subcommittee on the coronavirus crisis is requesting an interview with US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Robert Redfield after the panel describes concerns in a new letter over potential efforts by the Trump administration to "conceal and destroy evidence" of interference from political appointees in the work of career officials dealing with pandemic response. The letter, sent to Redfield and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar by Democratic subcommittee chairman Jim Clyburn, states that a career CDC official told the panel she was ordered to delete an email -- an instruction she understood came from Redfield -- where an HHS appointee "demanded that CDC alter or rescind truthful scientific reports he believed were damaging to President Trump." According to the letter, Dr. Charlotte Kent, chief of the scientific publications branch and editor-in-chief of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly report at CDC, told subcommittee staff earlier this week that she was told to delete an email sent on August 8 by Health and Human Services senior adviser Dr. Paul Alexander. The letter states that the panel was not given the email by the department despite its request, but notes that an excerpt was published in the media. It includes an excerpt in which Alexander is critical of the CDC, saying, according to the letter, "CDC tried to report as if once kids get together, there will be spread and this will impact school reopening .... Very misleading by CDC and shame on them. Their aim is clear ... This is designed to hurt this Presidnet [sic]." Redfield said in a statement following the release of the subcommittee's letter, "Regarding the email in question, I instructed CDC staff to ignore Dr. Alexander's comments." "As I testified before Congress, I am fully committed to maintaining the independence of the MMWR, and I stand by that statement," he said referring to the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. An HHS spokesperson pushed back on the panel's assertions and accused the subcommittee of "not operating in good faith." In a statement to CNN, the spokesperson said, "The Subcommittee's characterization of the conversation with Dr. Kent is irresponsible. We urge the Subcommittee to release the transcript in full which will show that during her testimony Dr. Kent repeatedly said there was no political interference in the MMWR process." The statement added, "Despite HHS working diligently to accommodate the Select Subcommittee's many requests, the Subcommittee is not operating in good faith." Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat, writes in the letter, "I am deeply concerned that the Trump Administration's political meddling with the nation's coronavirus response has put American lives at greater risk, and that Administration officials may have taken steps to conceal and destroy evidence of this dangerous conduct."