First off, I would like to provide my experience with purchasing a used phone. I was very hesitant with this one. But Amazon has a wonderful return policy so I thought, if it isn't what I'm expecting, I can always return it. The things I was very concerned about with previous reviews is if the phone had been wiped correctly to be set up as a new iPhone, if the phone had been previously stolen, if the phone is truly 'unlocked', if the storage space was as I ordered, or if the phone was even a genuine Apple product in the first place! Upon opening it, I did find some light scratching on the front and back glass. Of course, this is to be expected. I'm very happy that there's nothing major at all. The stainless steel band is SPOTLESS. I powered it on, it greeted me with Apple's famous multilingual 'Hello' screen. And THANKFULLY the phone was indeed wiped properly before handed down. I set it up with my Apple ID and went straight to settings. I checked the Serial Number at Apple's website. And was so happy that what I received was a 100% genuine XS Max. I was also very happy to discover that the storage was what I ordered and that yes, the phone is unlocked. I also checked the battery health which is at 98%. Leading me to believe this phone had only been used lightly before. Everything checks out, I am thrilled! Coming from an iPhone 8 Plus, I notice that the phone feels equally as good in my hand. But the smoothness of the stainless steel just adds such a premium feel to it. And have I mentioned the gold is absolutely stunning!? I'm really happy I chose the XS Max over the 11 Pro Max. Mainly because of the extremely ugly new camera on it. Being a huge fan of Touch ID, I was very upset about having to switch to Face ID. But honestly, it's actually a lot better than I expected it to be. Its quicker, more secure, and more convenient that your phone just knows that it's you. Now, Performance. This phone excels at pretty much all that I ask it to. Games are faster and smoother than I've ever experienced on a mobile device. (Even the Note 9 I had.) And the new OLED Super Retina Display makes movies, videos, and pictures just incredible. The blacks are SO dark, they blend in perfectly with the outer screen. The camera is unbelievable too. Photos are sharp with detail and the colors are impressive. So overall, my experience of purchasing a used phone couldn't have gone smoother. I am very happy with it! Just make sure you buy from a seller with a bunch of great reviews and you'll most likely get a truthful and legit product like I did.
I would first like to say that I have supported apple for a long time but this phone is unreliable and not worth the money. I have held off on writing a review in hopes that this phone would improve but it continues to be crap. My first issue with this phone is it's lack of a headphone jack. Now when I purchased this phone I knew I would have to carry around an adapter and I was willing to accept that; however, I was not prepared for my phone to not play music or connect even when I had said adapter. Furthermore, it used to not continuously charge meaning I would constantly have to re-plug it in and now it refuses to charge all together. Also, it will stop playing songs or Siri will turn on (even after I disabled her) for no reason. In addition, the camera will constantly freeze when I try to zoom in which has often stopped me from taking amazing photos. All in all this phone is glitchy, not worth the money, ugly (I mean did they really think making the top dip down was a good idea?), and will ultimately annoy you to the point where you have to write a rant online and not even on the official website because apple doesn't want to hear people's opinions.
I researched the iPhone 6,7, and 8 as replacements for my aging 5s. I also sought out sellers with good ratings for this purchase. I settled on MyWit based on their reviews and their volume of sales. The phone arrived a day early and it is absolutely pristine. If it is a refurb, there are zero signs of that as there are no marks anywhere on it. Not even finger prints or dust. It came with a nice flex lighting cable and Apple charger (no sim as advertised). I put the sim card from my old iPhone 5s in it and went through the setup questions. I had a fully functional iPhone 8 in 5 minutes tops. I selected the iPhone 8 over the 6 or 7 due to the advanced technology in the 8. It is worth the extra $100 over the same size 7. It is fast but the battery lasts all day without showing significant signs of needing a charge. I also purchased a Speck Candy Shell case for this phone. The iPhone 8 has a glass back for wireless charging and it is very smooth and slick to hold. With my dry fingers, it is difficult to even use the phone so a case is necessary to give it some grip. The Speck case is a perfect, anti-slip and lots of drop and screen protection. See this case here https://www.amazon.com/Speck-Products-CandyShell-Phone-iPhone/dp/B01K094IZ8 Very pleased with the seller too and I would certainly use them for another phone purchase without question!
I called AT&T this morning to see if this phone can be unlocked and whether it truly came from a non-USA affiliate of AT&T. Mary, the AT&T representative tol me that: A) 250 days remain on the warranty, so phone is about 3-4 months old; B) phone is one of many purchased from AT&T (USA) on a payment plan that was not paid; C) the account used to purchase the phone was closed by AT&T's FRAUD TEAM; D) the phone DID NOT come from an AT&T affiliate, European or otherwise; and E) the phone is subject to being blacklisted for non-payment and *possible* fraud. I provided a copy of my Amazon.com invoice to document that I purchased the phone in good faith. Mary submitted a request to have this phone "cleared" in their system so it won't be blacklisted and can be unlocked. It will take 48-72 hours to find out if AT&T will do this. Apparently, there are a lot of phones like this one being sold on Amazon.com and other online marketplaces. Buyer beware. Do you really want to spend $1,000 + of your hard-earned money only to find out you were scammed?
Having had no choice since my iPhone 5s died, I had to get a new cell phone. I looked at NEW Verizon plans (ahhh, no thank you) and other providers and decided to stay with Verizon, but get a refurbished phone. The question was now: Android or another iPhone. After reviewing um-teen million reviews, I decided on another (yawn...!) iPhone (shocking!) Now the question was, WHICH iPhone (another yawn). I heard about problems with the 6, the iPhone Pluses were tooo big and the 8s and up were toooo expensive for my needs (hey, it’s only a PHONE!), so I decided on a....you guessed it, refurbished 7. Well, I am not disappointed. Slightly larger than my 5s, more memory (bunches more!) and in very good condition...NO scratches, gouges, or screen problems. My only complaint is the home button is strange. I like the the old mechanical home button better, it had a better feel, but then, I’m an old, non-vegan, meat-n-potato’s, non-gaming, non-craft beer, non-tweeting guy who grew up with rotary phones at home, and pay phones on the road. All in all, I give this phone, and the seller, a 9 out of 10 after a week of use and loading apps and discovering new features. I’ll check back after 6 months and update. Well, it’s late August 2019, and I couldn’t be happier with this purchase!!! Absolutely NO regrets!!!
The iPhone X is the most exciting phone I've owned since the iPhone 3GS so many years ago. I only recently had an opportunity to get one and it looks amazing, its cameras are spectacular and its quickness can be felt everywhere. Apple knew their design would be exciting, so they skipped over number 9 and made it the "10," as if to say they're showing you a window to the future, just like a concept car. But as we all know, concept cars rarely end up on the assembly line without a few changes, and with good reason. Here's why the iPhone X, for all its power and beauty, really just deserves a "B" for its design: 1) The phone's signature looks turn anonymous inside a case. 2) The phone's surfaces all scratch easily. 3) It is the most slippery phone I've ever encountered. Add these things together, and you have a beautiful phone that MUST be put in an obscuring case, which makes its beauty kind of pointless. Inside a case and switched off, it doesn't even have Apple's signature circular button to identify itself. As of right now, I only have glass protectors on the front and back, but I know what will happen if I keep it like this long-term. The other new feature on the iPhone X is Face ID, or "expensive way to avoid having a button on the front of the phone." It works fine, but requires mild adjustments in how you use your phone and is definitely no better than Touch ID. I turned off the "attention detection," meaning I don't have to be looking directly at the phone to unlock it, and now it is quick and unobtrusive. Finally, there's the "notch." This is a non-issue. I don't know what the fuss is about unless you're a software designer. Moving on. All in all, I've had my iPhone X for a couple months and couldn't be happier. It is not perfect, and I'll bet it'll be completely replaced by Fall 2019 (now that designer Jonny Ive is back in charge), but I'm loving everything about it. Even its flaws.
11/21/2019 I bought this phone in August, arrived in original packaging with an Apple charger- worked great with no problems! Like new, camera worked great, absolutely no issues. However, my phone got stolen from me at the end of October. So I ordered a second one- complete opposite experience. Came in a small, dirty box with some weird charger. Had obvious scratches on the screen, and the pictures taken with the camera was noticeably worse quality. I had been waiting for 3 weeks to replace my phone so I gave it a shot anyway... the microphone did not work at all. When people called, I could hear them and they couldn't hear me- which I had this misfortune of finding out while needing roadside service from AAA, who hung up on me upon my "lack" of response when I answered the phone. Took it to T Mobile and chatted online with Apple to do some troubleshooting- turns out it's just a bad refurbished phone, so the only answer was to return it. Disappointed overall- good luck with your order... 12/2/2019 Increasing my review from 2 stars to 3 stars. Still leaving off one star for the 1 busted up phone, and 1 star for the inconvenience and 3 weeks of waiting to replace my phone- as well as both times the shipping delayed, (however only by 1 day each time, but I think I should mention it since it is listed "Prime FREE Delivery"). I ordered a third phone with my fingers crossed and as a last attempt to try out this phone. THANK GOODNESS IT PAID OFF. I got another phone, quality as good as the first one. I leave this review after 1.5 weeks of phone 3 with no issues. I will update my review if anything changes but currently I am relieved it worked out.
I was initially skeptical about buying a used phone, but the experience so far has been great. I've been playing with the phone for the past few days and held off before writing a review to test things out. There weren't any major scratches/dents on the device, with an exception to some small scratches on the stainless steel bezel. Those were probably inevitable anyways, and can easily be polished out with a Cape Cod cloth. The screen didn't have any scratches visible to the naked eye, and was in very good condition. One thing I have noticed is that when turned off the device takes sometimes up to 20 seconds or more before powering on, which I don't know if is common for iPhones as this is my first one. Another thing I thought I would be worried about is the battery health, which hasn't been a problem. In fact, the model I got was at 100%! This makes me believe it was either recently changed or Apple has some serious durability on their battery, as I've gone over a whole day without charging when starting at 100%. Everything feels fast, and works as it should. I also had some time left the original apple 1 year warranty, so should be covered for the next few months. Overall, I can't speak for other sellers, but SikkSound gave me a very good phone! However, I would recommend buying from a reputable seller on Amazon if you're going the used route, and to be able to make sure you can return if there are any problems, since it can honestly be a crapshoot from what I've read in other reviews. I will update my rating if anything changes or goes wrong with the phone. EDIT: After using the phone for just a few months, there is now a speaker problem with the speaker. It has a very noticeable distortion when playing audio. I haven't exposed it to water or dropped it at all. I'm considering doing a return.
TLDR: Great phone, looks new. Pay attention to who the seller is when you make your choice - the seller changes when you choose a different color. I bought from BuySPRY. All good so far. I was incredibly hesitant to buy a refurbished phone on Amazon after reading so many negative reviews on various products. I spent a lot of time researching my options and figured this one was probably my safest bet. Phone came in perfect condition (seriously, it looks brand new) and so far all the functions seem great. Set up was easy, unlocked, ready to set my fingerprint and everything. It's fast, sleek, and beautiful. Camera and audio are also great. What I learned: who the seller is is very important. Although all the phones on here are iPhone 6S 64GB, when you select a different color, the seller changes. When you scroll down and look at the section "Compare to similar items", you will see who the phone is sold by. Looking at the reviews, most of the negative reviews seemed to be associated with the Space Gray more than the other colors. I then looked rating of each seller for each color of the iPhone 6S 64GB and went from there. As of the time of this review, the Space Gray is listed as "Item Under Review" because of the customer feedback.
I’ve owned my iPhone XS Max for a little over a month now. Let me say this, I started with the original iPhone and kept them through the 4S. I made the switch to Galaxy, and had those through the S6 Edge. Made the switch back and I can tell you my user experience is better than any phone ever. I was definitely the one that argued Galaxy are superior. For many reasons they are. I’ve played with the X, and was disappointed. Pros: Battery life is superior to anything I’ve owned Reception hands down is the BEST. I can use it without issue in the big department stores that plague everyone. The feel of this phone is luxury at minimum. It’s flawless in your hands. It’s faster than any galaxy or iPhone I’ve ever used and tried (Note 8 and S9) The apps are just designed better. I am a very heavy user and stream EVERYTHING. I have never had an issue with reception, speed or lagging, ever. 3D Touch and face recognition are super fast and user friendly. I’ve noticed face recognition gets better with use. It’s constantly calibrating, which means as you change, so it does. The camera, hands down is such an incredible quality. Both features and image quality. You know this about iPhone, and ignore marketing of other companies, it’s BS. Wireless charging is lightning fast Seamlessly connects with iPad and they automatically update each other with apps etc. THIS is super cool!!! The speakers are incredible! I actually have to turn it down a couple notches as it’s very loud The new Gold is just absolutely stunning. The backing is a pearlized gold and the trim around it is a classy and metal gold. Stunning Cons: Pricey No headphone jack All glass (doesn’t bother me as I am extremely careful with my phones) but the average person that drops, you need to put a case on. No headphones included No cable included (I bought a 5 pack from Amazon anyway beforehand, so it’s a non issue) The notch. Bit of an odd eyesore but in turn I get HD quality calls and reverse camera functionality) Overall this truly is an incredible device.
You don’t realize how heavy a phone can be until you are on it 6 hours a day. This phone starts to deteriorate pretty quickly; it’s only been around 5 months and the screen does not work as well; and there are so many actions this phone can do; I spent like guessing 5 to 10 percent of my time on it; correcting errors. 20 percent of the time I touch an icon; it doesn’t activate; but instead swipes left or right. I should be an expert on touching icons by now; yet still it happens. The apps this phone can use are really great and fun; but they need to seriously work on a hands free device and triple their man hours on the glitches and errors. Let the Chinese use the newest IOS for a year before releasing to the rest of the world; so they can deal with all the problems. One more thing; stop making the outside of the phone so slick; The slightest degree this phone is from horizontal, and there it falls off. You have to take the case off because it gets too hot, too quick. My screen dims like every five minutes. I could go on and on; but Apple knows; it’s just about the money for them.
My iPhone X was delivered in what I believe to be near perfect condition. Very light scratch on the face of the screen, however it disappeared after installing a tempered glass screen protector. Powered on just fine and is fully compatible with my at&t SIM card. The iPhone came with 89% of it’s original factory battery health which is more than advertised for this refurbished product (battery health can be found in settings). With the iPhone X I also received both an apple brand power cable and wall adapter (I got lucky). My apple AirPods and apple watch (both sold separately) paired to this devise without any issues. Overall: I received my product exactly as advertised which makes me very satisfied. Other reviewers complain about things outside of the sellers control such as the lack of a headphone jack and the new gesture controls used in place of the retired “home button”. The learning curve felt easy and natural. Potential buyers should look into the features of the phone before buying this product new OR refurbished. 5/5 stars highly recommended.
I bought this for my daughter for Xmas. I read A LOT of Q&A's to make sure that whatever I chose, it was in as best condition that I could find and unlocked so that she would be able to connect to her service. Everything I went through on this phone was exactly what I was looking for; however, she has not been able to connect it to her service because it keeps saying it is locked by verizon. She was told by verizon and apple that the phone is unlocked but when she puts in her sim card, it doesn't work. Apple tried to work with her to unlock it but was still unable to unlock. Now it seems we have to either look for a phone kit to hopefully fix the issue or return it so she can get something else. This is infuriating when we spent over $300 and now either possibly more or she has to go without a phone with a one year old at home so we can return it. I haven't been able to find how to contact them. Hopefully someone sees this and helps me fix it or I'm going to air mail it back to their office and not care where it lands.
So far the phone has been great. It came with a small but noticeable scratch on the back glass, which was expected. I was very disappointed with how it was packaged and protected in the packaging. I’ve bought screen protectors that have come in a more secure package. It came in a box inside a padded envelope. When I opened the envelope my box was destroyed (which I do know isn’t the fault of the seller but of bad shipping and handeling. My point is that it should’ve been protected in the event that the shipping wasn’t careful). It was pure luck that the phone itself wasn’t broken. It just didn’t give me the best feeling. I was disappointed to be honest. I wish it would’ve come in a box similar to the box which iPhones originally come in, being more similar to a case than a cheap paper box. The phone itself is great so far. The wall charger and cord are off brand which was again expected. Everything works well. Other than being sent in a sketchy package overall, I’m happy with the product itself. Better than I expected actually.. and that’s why I’m giving 4 stars.
I bought this for my network VERIZON and worked flawlessly, BUT you have to have a sim card, if you dont, you have to go to verizon and have them get you one. I saw A REVIEW on here that says not compatible with VERIZON, this is untrue, because she said she was on the phone with verizon for an hour. I know that shes wrong because there is no need to call verizon, just take the sim out of your current phone and pop into the iphone, and boom done. If you dont have a sim, you have to GO to a verizon store, they CANT give you a sim over the PHONE. ALSO here is another tid-bit of information for you - Yes it does, I myself have verizon, and it indeed works. Also, just for your information, 'Unlocked" means it will work with any carrier. Also another tid-bit of information, any iphone after the 5s, I mean any iphone after 5s, on any carrier can be taken to any other carrier. For example, lets say I have a Sprint unlimited plan with an iphone 6s Plus, that iPhone 6s Plus can be taken to any other carrier and activated (because its an iphone thats later than the iPhone 5s). Oh and also of course assuming that the phone has been paid in full, because if you do one of those payment plans with the iPhone where they take the cost of the iPhone and divide it by 24 and then add that to your monthly bill, that iPhone cant be taken to any other carrier (even if after 5s) until its been 2 years and been paid on monthly or its paid in full at the time you want to take it to another carrier. Now back to my example, and assuming the iPhone is paid for in full, and lets say I am selling my sprint phone to you (and you have verizon) I would sell the phone to you, and you would then go to sprint yourself, and say i just bought this phone, its been paid in full, and i need you to "release it from sprint" so i can take it to my network verizon. And then badda bing your home free, and after that, that iPhone is now "unlocked" and can take to your carrier, and then if you were going to sell the phone again down the road, whoever you sell it to would not have to do what you did, because once you did it, the phone became "unlocked". So if its an iPhone 5s and later, it is unlocked and can be taken to any carrier no matter what carrier it was used on prior. The days that you had to search for a phone that was on the same network as your own, are gone.
Because of the country I live in it is even too hassling to return it so I have to just sit and fester with the wrong item! Luckily the person I am buying it for isn't fussy but if you are BUYER BEWARE!!! The phone quality was very good otherwise and the storage capacity was as stated. Came with a charger, a plastic screen protector which is best replaced with a useful one and simple black snap case which does nothing to protect the phone. Instead of those things I would have preferred it at least come with the lighting/3.5mm jack converter or the earpods but nah. If you're going to order this, I hope you're not too fussy about which model iPhone or colour you're getting cause it's clearly up in the air. Edit: 2 months later after the person whom I gifted this to started to use the phone, it couldn't hold any charge. Turns out the battery was defective. It was constantly swelling to the point the phone split in two. Brought it in to a technician in the nick of time and even caused a small spark while being fixed in the store. Absolutely DO NOT BUY FROM THIS SELLER. THEY CLEARLY CANNOT OR DO NOT REFURBISH PHONES.
iPhone 8 256GB Space Gray Unlocked GSM What came in the box 1. iPhone 8 256GB Space Gray Unlocked GSM 2. Lightning Cable 3. USB Plug 4. Original Box What was not in the box 1. Earphones 2. SIM Card Removal Tool 3. User Manual The cable and plug are white and wrapped in plastic just like what you would get if it was new from Apple. I cannot tell if these are originals. Earphones Have always used 3rd party so not getting a set was not a deal breaker. Phone Condition Body is in very good condition. There are paint flecks on the corners, maybe dropped on a hardwood floor, it is smooth to the touch, not deep so it does not appear to have been dropped on concrete, pavement or other rough surface and it is not a light scratch from carrying it in a pocket. Screen Condition It came with a screen protector already applied. If there are any scratches I cannot tell. With the protector on, it looks pristine. A bummer since it was not mentioned in the ad and I had purchased a case and screen protector for it. I always protect the phone before it goes outside. It’s an expensive device so why people don’t protect it from day one I’ll never know, I guess some don’t care. I have a spare screen protector now. Battery Condition Battery Health says 91% Maximum Capacity relative to when it was new, 86% charge on startup. Even though capacity says 91%, I am not having issues where I am out of juice early. Over a day with moderate use, heavier use I would need to recharge around 06:00pm-07:00 pm. This of course is a YMMV. Setting it up Phone was already reset. You set it up just like if it came straight out of the factory. Camera No scratches on the lens and photos come out crisp and sharp. Speakers No issues, sound is very good. No hissing, cracks or pops. Microphone, Lighting Port No issues. Works. Phone came with iOS 12.3.1 installed. So far I have not come across any issues that would give me pause on the purchase. Phone is working as expected and the ad says phone is like new and I would have to agree. Amazon tends to lump all the reviews together, regardless of seller so you can’t tell which negative review belongs to who. It’s as if it was all sold by one seller. Reviewers need to say who their seller was. My seller was MobileDealz and at the time they were a little bit cheaper than most.  This phone debut at 849.00 + tax on September 22, 2017. Nearly 2 years later it is has seen a 50%+ price drop. I don’t need the latest and greatest, a gently used phone is just as good.
The most user UNFRIENDLY PHONE EVER PRODUCED! If this were the only cellphone available in the world I would go back to using a CB radio or two tin cans with a string. I despise this phone. The voice recognition software is useless. I tried to say "Hey Siri, I want to book a flight to Tampa, Florida" and it tried to pull up books about tampons in Florida. Every time you pick the stupid thing up it takes a picture of the screen. And speaking of screens, try sending a text message to someone....when you try to tap their name, it ends up calling them instead, when you finally do get the message screen open and you start to type into what you think is the message field, you are typing your message in the "TO:" field. The GPS navigation is a joke. I do not understand people who love Apple products.. Anyone who likes this phone must enjoy being constantly frustrated with trying to do the most simple and mundane of tasks. If you have an iPhone and you love it, you are not my friend! That's right, we have nothing in common and I don't like you because of it. YES, that is me judging you! Call me superficial, call me an idiot, I don't care; I hate this phone more than anything and I don't want to be around people who like it! I will never stray away from an Android based system again.
The phone arrived right on time and in great condition. The charger that was included worked great. However, I think this phone must be from Korea or Japan, where it's apparently illegal to take digital photos without an audible shutter click. There is absolutely no way to turn off the sound, even when the phone is muted and the volume is turned all the way down. It happens in every major application that uses the camera. As an art student, I take TONS of pictures, and the camera is the primary reason why I got the iPhone X. I took it to multiple IT stores where they told me to either return the phone or to jailbreak it to rewrite the lines of code that affect the feature (and jailbreaking voids any warranty or service that Apple offers). I'm returning it because it's too big of a hiccup to work around (can't take pictures in a wedding/library/quiet setting at all...!). Ideally, they should make sure that the country of origin is taken into consideration before selling someone a product if it's going to be such a major feature difference. TLDR: nice phone, in great condition, good price, came on time, but this particular phone is unusable for anyone who likes to take pictures
The phone was broken, the front microphone was not working when we got it. It took a couple days to figure it out but after we did I contacted the seller for help. They responded very quickly and told me I could either return it to them for another "renewed" one or take it to the Apple store since it was still under warranty. We took it to the Apple store. They looked at it and did some diagnostics right in the store and the phone self reported that the microphone was broken. Dealing with Apple was horrible - in short it took 2 months, 3 trips (7 hours total) at the the Apple store before we had a phone that worked. The renewed cellular people were nice and quick to respond but the fact that the phone self reported a broken microphone and they still sold it is upsetting. This phone should not have been sold and they could easily tell it was not fixed (the "scan" took 2 minutes in the store). I can't hold the horrible experience at Apple against this seller but from Apple I got a new phone and I didn't want to take the chance on another renewed one from the seller - as it was obvious their check is not thorough. In short next time I am going to just get the new phone.
I was very nervous about buying a refurbished phone, but everyone in my 5 person family all needed a new phone at the same time. I knew that would be costly since we use Straight Talk and would have to buy unlocked phones at full cost up front. I am writing this review for all three phones I purchased from this seller, but I will only attach photos of the specific phone the review is attached to. 2 - iPhone X 1 - iPhone Xs Max All refurbished. The phones came well packaged in "Certified Refurbished" boxes. All phones are GSM or Fully Unlocked and all work with Straight Talk service. I was able to just transfer the SIM card they were already using to the new phones without service interruption. ***iPhone X 256gb (Silver): The back is flawless. The screen has VERY minor blemishes that appear to have been caused by over buffing/polishing the glass. Nowhere near bad enough to send the phone back. I mean... I got an iPhone X 256gb for $500. I seriously can't complain about that. We decided to go on and give the kids their phones (Christmas gifts) early just to make sure they were fully functional. This phone works like new and is a HUGE upgrade from my 12 year olds Samsung Galaxy S4 which was a hand-me-down to make sure she was responsible enough for a phone. To say she is ecstatic is an understatement. This phone gets an A- for the scratches on the screen and the fact that it was missing the sim card key. (Btw, the Silver looks more like white.) iPhone X 256gb (Space Gray): The screen is flawless. The back has extremely minor wear and tear scratches. Nothing a case won't cover up. We decided to go on and give the kids their phones (Christmas gifts) early just to make sure they were fully functional. This phone works like new and is an upgrade from my 16 year olds Samsung Galaxy S7 which was a hand-me-down because he broke his old iPhone 5 (Don't let your kid put their phone in their backpack with heavy textbooks!). He is so happy to have a "new to you" iPhone. This phone gets an A++ for having all promised parts and better than expected condition. You can't beat a price of $520 for this condition either! iPhone Xs Max 256gb (Space Gray): This phone had wear and tear scratches all over. Like they never used a case, but never dropped it either. This one was bought for my husband. He chose a refurbished Xs Max over the new 11 Pro Max because as a firefighter, he is extremely rough on his phones. $700 was way better than $1,500. He upgraded from an iPhone 6s. Other than the minor cosmetic issues, this phone has exceeded our expectations. It gets an A simply because of the cosmetics, which wear easily covered with a screen protector and an Otterbox. Over all, I do recommend this seller. And if you want to save some money, or you're buying a phone for your kids who will more than likely break it, don't be afraid to try a refurbished phone. Keep in mind that you can always get your phone repaired at Best Buy. Here's a link for prices on iPhone repairs. https://www.bestbuy.com/site/apple-service-repair/iphone-service-repair/pcmcat748302046186.c?id=pcmcat748302046186
Delivery: I ordered this on 11/1 and it was literally delivered by 11/2. Condition Upon Arrival: I inspected the phone after opening and had to look very very closely to see the two little scratches on the back. And I do mean VERY closely. I use a case so it mattered even less. Switching phones: There were no issues taking my TMobile SIM card (have used it for about 2 years now) out of my old phone, putting it in this new one (I used an earring to open the little slot on the side of the phones), and getting this one turned on. It accepted my Sim right away and the setup process began. Setup: It has never been this easy for me to get a new phone set up. After choosing language, entering WiFi password, and putting in Apple ID, it asked me if I wanted to transfer everything from my last iCloud back up. I chose the ‘yes’ option and it said I could just place my old phone next to my new one. Once I unlocked my old phone, I backed it up again (so that it would be as recent as possible). After that was done, I put the two phones (both unlocked) next to each other and the transfer automatically began. Within minutes (maybe 10-15 at most) my new phone had all the apps, pictures/videos, and settings of my old phone. Another point for technology! Comparison to old phone: my last phone was an iPhone 6 (had that exact device for about a year and a half) and honestly, what really prompted the switch was that the touchscreen part of very edge of the right side and bottom were no longer responsive (which was getting really irritating when it came to using my keyboard or accessing options on those parts). This phone (iPhone 7) is the exact same size so I was able to slide it right into the same phone case (which I’m happy about). It took the first few uses to get used to the feel of the home button but it’s not as off putting as I thought it’d be. The camera quality is slightly crisper but I don’t notice a *huge* difference (no surprise as it’s only one generation up). The lack of earphone jack hasn’t been an issue because I use a Bluetooth earpiece (Jabra Talk, to be exact; super old school but I love it because it wraps around my ear and regular earbuds tend to just slip out; plus, I don’t need to have my phone on me, when I walk around and can go into a whole nother room. Anyway....). It might be an issue later though bc if I’m in the middle of a call and my earpiece dies, I usually switch to regular earphones. Guess I’ll eventually have to get the piece that lets you connect the two.... Battery life: It doesn’t take long to charge fully. That said, I can’t be sure but I think the battery tends to get drained a bit quicker than I’d expect (though that could just mean that I use it a whole lot throughout the day). Anyway, it hasn’t been long but overall, the phone is holding up.
INTRO I bought the iPhone XS Max on the first day it came out on September 12, 2018. I purchased the 64gb gold model. I have owned other iPhones in the past such as the 6 and 8 plus and many other Apple products. I’ve also had Androids and many different types of PC’s. In this review I will focus on mainly the camera and battery. IDEAL USER The ideal user for the iPhone XS Max would be someone who has owned an iPhone before. The reason I say this is because it has so many similarities to its previous models such as the format of the apps. Also, the shortcuts on this new iPhone are extremely similar to the old generations. CAMERA In my opinion, the iPhone XS Max camera is one of the best and offers amazing advantages. There is this new feature where you can now change the depth of field of a picture that has already been taken. Another plus is that you can do this to photos that have taken by both the front and back camera unlike androids. Some androids can also adjust the depth of field but only before the picture is taken and not after. I use this feature all the time and improves the picture dramatically, making them look professionally taken. BATTERY LIFE The battery life for the iPhone XS Max is the biggest battery that has ever been on a iPhone. It can even last an hour a half longer than its previous model the X. I start off my day with a fully charged phone every day and stream music, watch videos, roam social media for hours and it does not die. It is at a low percentage, but it still has battery. So basically, one full charge can last you the whole day maybe even two. OVERALL Overall, this phone is good phone for anyone who wants to upgrade from their older generation model. The camera will never fail you, it’s the best on the market and offers many editing abilities with the camera. The battery is so big on the XS Max that you won’t always need to carry your charger with you. These are the only things I could talk about in a short review because this phone has so many advantages.
I recently decided to upgrade from the iPhone 7 to the iPhone X. I was unimpressed with any enhanced features, and namely the new face recognition to unlock the device. After the first two days of owning the new iPhone, I was over it. Gone was the ease of simply using a finger print to unlock the phone. This became annoying since I have to have a passcode on the phone and many apps I use day to day require either a pin or passcode which would generally use the finger id. Yes, the face recognition would unlock the device, but I had to literally pickup the phone every time I wanted to access email, text messages, or review information in an app. Previously, my phone could rest on my desk, I simply use my finger id to unlock and easily access whatever. Now, I have to pick up the phone or make it obvious I am accessing something on my phone. Aside from the new facial recognition, there is nothing really feature enhanced from the iPhone 7. Sure, you can argue, better camera etc, but that is minimal and not worth the money or upgrade with something already awesome. The downside was i didn't even own the phone for 3 weeks and the screen stopped working, the phone wouldn't power on... very disappointing.
This item is claimed to be a "functioning like new" device, but this is NOT TRUE AT ALL. Let me walk through this dramatic tragedy in detail. I had been monitoring the package from the moment after purchase, so it wasn't an accident that on that bright, sunny day I was waiting by the mailbox as the delivery truck cruised in. Grabbing my package, I ran inside, ecstatic at the prospect of my newest gadget. Gazing at that chrome-plated beauty, I knew love at first sight was true. As I set up this electronic treasure, I tap into "settings" to feast my eyes on the sight you rarely see in an iPhone... the battery at full capacity reader proudly gleaming a 100% like-new condition. But no, what sight met my eyes gave me a horror as you would not believe. Eighty....... Three...... Percent...... Now my mind was racing. I had already vowed til death do us part, but now looking at my bride's screen I realized what I had to do. I needed a second doctors opinion. I scheduled an appointment as soon as we returned from the honeymoon with Apple Memorial Hospital, and settled in to an uneasy vacation with my new love.... it was then that tragedy struck. As I started editing a slow motion video of a man breaking an egg on his forehead, the screen flickered and died. I gently tried to shake her awake, hitting the power and volume button up and down (Mainly down. A volume button being obviously a huge plus on a wife) As I rushed her to the ER at the nearest Apple Memorial Hospital I feared the worst. And the worst is what I got. Her heart, (known as a smart board) had failed. She would never speak to me again. I never saw her eyes open since that day, and I'll never forget the last image I saw of her, as the egg was making it's final impact on that man's head. I don't tell this story for self pity. I realize that this may be emotional for many of you to recall similar moments in your life's past. Perhaps even recent past. I share this only from a place of love and concern for other members of this community in the Amazon, that you don't make the same mistakes as I did. I will add one last word and say I have found support groups especially helpful during this emotional time. Thank you all for your time, and I hope you never buy.. *ahem, marry* a bride from this father-in-law. Happy phone hunting!
The product was defective and I wish I had chosen another retailer. It's not too late for you. 1. DEFECTIVE BATTERY - The phone was defective the day it arrived. The battery does not hold a charge consistently or indicate how long it will actually last. This defect is sporadic—so sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. I thought I was doing something wrong at first so, after a few weeks of frustration, I did a test to see: tracking how long I charged and how long it lasted. This confirmed it was not my fault or a defective charger and that the phone I purchased from Electonic Deals was the problem. 2. QUESTIONABLE SECURITY - Since the day it arrived, I've had someone trying 'access the phone' remotely who is not me. I have never experienced this when I purchased a new phone or one from a credible phone reseller. 3. DEFECTIVE CAMERA - The camera stopped working entirely with no clear cause as I did not drop or damage it in any way prior to this malfunction (however, to be honest, I did scratch it in the corner but this was ironically just last week). All these problems lead to some unfortunate experiences. An unreliable phone can leave you stranded in dangerous situations: Once I charged the phone all day at work, and left late at night so I called a cab. The Electonic Deals phone died by the time I was outside, leaving me locked out and stranded. The cab never came and I had to walk through the city by myself at midnight. It can also risk your job: I had a 100% charge before going to bed so I did not plug it in to charge (reasonable) and it died before the morning so my alarm did not ring. I was late to work several times because of this and ended up buying an old alarm clock. Why didn't I send it back immediately? - Initially, I was not sure the battery issue was a defect. I tend to trust sellers and waited to verify this before accusing Electronic Deals of making a bad sale. - The requests to access my info made me not trust sending it back. Maybe it was Electonic Deals and, if I sent the phone back, I would be at risk of identity theft. I still don't trust this and will bring it to a techy friend to clear my data... - A cell phone is no small purchase. The time between returning it, receiving my money back, and purchasing a new one would leave me disconnected and out 1K. - Once I did confirm this, I had come up with a system: use it only when needed, carry an external battery and always have it plugged in when at work, home and near a power source. Ignore the requests from the mysterious person and hope for the best. Once the camera died, it was very doomed and clear I had been swindled by Electonic Deal. Note: After many emails, the company eventually said I could return the phone— however, they included terms that essentially negated the offer to take it back. Maybe the return terms were a mistake and they will send me my money back in full. However, I've received no gestures of good faith or indication that they sell working products or do fair business. I may have to take the $500 loss because it was my choice to test instead of returning immediately. So my advice is to pick another seller and, if you run into ANY issue, RETURN THE ELECTRONIC DEALS PRODUCT IMMEDIATELY. Rate them 1 star. As of this point, I do not trust them and don't think you should either. Also, if you have suggestions for another more credible retailer please share it with me in the comments so I can find a new working phone!
Ok here is my review of my new iPhone XS Max. It replaces a Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge. Battery: The battery is excellent and here’s why. Obviously the antenna in the Samsung was awful because I would use 30% of the battery traveling from Central Massachusetts to western Mass, a 50 mile trip but there would be spots where it couldn’t find a tower and the battery usage skyrocketed when that happened. This is not a problem with the iPhone, so the antenna must be way better, or whatever technology it is that’s different from Samsung, it’s better. I could never get through a day without needing to recharge the Galaxy. I use the phone a lot for listening to music (battery drain), Google searches, Instagram and Twitter. With the iPhone my usage has not changed if anything has increased due to the novelty of the new phone yet I have been able to get through every day (except the day of purchase when it was not fully charged out of the box) without charging the battery during the day. The iPhone, also doesn’t burn a hole in my pants pocket or heat other objects when it’s battery consumption is high. Antenna: Continuing on the antenna subject, I work in a Home Depot and the Samsung had issues getting reception and wifi in the store. No such issue with the XS Max. I also don’t lose reception where I did traveling on the road to western Mass. Music and speakers: The speakers in the iPhone are head and shoulders above the Galaxy and sound much more professional or like they are bigger. The sound is rich and full bodied and I don’t mind listening to music on the phone. Copying music to the phone took (6) minutes as opposed to an hour compared to the Galaxy when I had to do that when the Galaxy was new. That’s over 3000 songs if anyone is counting. The music interface is iTunes which was a learning curve but a quick one. I liked the music player I had in the Galaxy better but I’m still learning iTunes. Music also sounds better on my car stereo coming out of the iPhone than it did from the Galaxy. I had noticed this when my son would play a song I had on my phone using his iPhone in my car, the quality was significantly better coming from his phone which I thought was strange, but the same phenomenon exists with my new iPhone and my car. Siri: Where have you been all my life? Siri's functionality is far superior to the Galaxy’s S Voice. I don’t have to touch my iPhone to send texts, play music etc. I just have to tell Siri to do it, even if the phone is locked. This is a huge advantage over the Galaxy S Voice which is supposed to do the same thing but I could never get it to work consistently or even at all. Facial Recognition versus Finger Print Scanner: The iPhone facial recognition wins again. The only app I have needing finger print recognition is my bank app, but I am still able to use it by typing the password in. All other apps I have use facial recognition, Amazon, Starbucks, and other apps needing credit card authorization. There are more facial recognition apps than finger print scanner ones. Facial Recognition works even in really low light like darkness. Speed. The iPhone is Faster period. My Starbucks app took 30 seconds to load on my Galaxy, on the iPhone it takes 5 seconds; that’s significantly faster especially when you’re in line at the drive thru!!! Maybe that’s not a fair comparison but it’s reality. Screen Resolution: Here the Galaxy has the win, hands down. The iPhone is close but it just can’t compete with the Galaxy screen colors and resolution. It’s not a big enough of a difference maker considering all of the iPhone wins so far. That and the iPhone XS Max screen is actually larger edge to edge than the Galaxy. Camera: I don’t take many photos with the phone but what I have taken I do notice the Galaxy was better in the photo quality area. Jury still out on this one. Keyboard or keyboard apps: Galaxy wins here. At least until I find a swipe able keyboard I like as much as the one I had on the Galaxy. Look and Feel: iPhone wins over Galaxy S7 Edge because I grew tired of the edge screen causing issues. Such as touching the edge just a little, and it was hard to know you were touching it, would make the screen appear unresponsive. Even though the iPhone has an edge to edge screen it does not suffer from this behavior probably due to the way it fits in my hand. I am just glad I don’t have to hit the screen 7 times before I get a response. Size and weight: the XS Max is the same size as the Galaxy S7 Edge and weighs about the same, I know not scientific but their weight is similar. Tie Headphone jack: None on iPhone and who cares really? What you don’t own a pair of Bluetooth headphones already? But you’re spending how much on this phone??? Right, if you think the Headphone jack is a selling point you’re in the dark ages. As you can tell I like the iPhone a lot. Can’t believe I waited this long to switch. There was a time when I loved the Galaxy but that was when I first bought it.
Fairly typical for an iPhone - always not enough battery but still quite good and does everything an iPhone should do and more. The Plus models have an additional camera which allows for portrait mode - which is awesome! Great pictures. Obviously the phone is larger than the non-Plus models but I got used to that within a few days. One strange issue I had that you might have too is that the phone might be sourced from a non-American batch. Specifically, it might be sourced from Japan - a country in which local law mandates that taking a picture must always be accompanied by the shutter sound and cannot be turned off. Weird, right? I can get around it a bit by taking "live" pictures, which minimizes the sound for some reason. But any picture taken through an app like Snapchat or portrait mode will have that loud shutter sound. I considered returning the phone but ultimately decided that the annoying shutter sound was worth putting up with because buying this phone on Amazon vs Apple Store saved me roughly $350 - quite significant!
My updated review: (2 stars): Had some issues with the phone. Battery life quickly plummeted to 80% and noticeably discharged faster. Camera lens seems unstable and rattles sometimes taking blurry pictures and video. I tried to submit a warranty request for their 90 day warranty but they wanted me to return the phone and be without one for more than a week and go through another 10hrs of wiping data and reloading data/signing in and setting up apps. I was also out of the country and couldn’t do that. Anyway they still get one extra star for providing decent service and having an ok product. After I fix these things though could have just bought a new one. So think about that first. You might get lucky. You might not My initial review (3 stars): Generally this phone is in pretty good shape. Battery life is at 89%, the case is nice, and the photo lens is clear. But there is a noticeable scratch in the display that is visible at greater than 12in distance. [seller offered to replace with another or a $20 rebate]
This is my third week with this phone. Its perfect but there’s a tiny few problems. First of all what I hate with a passion is the camera shutter sound which I tried everything I possibly could to turn it off but nothing at all worked. Then after some researched I learnt that all iphones from Japan are like this because it’s illegal to take photos in public on silent. Last thing is the battery life. It came with 97% capacity which is amazing but it goes kinda fast like my old phone but after watching some YouTube videos I think its just how iPhone 8s are because of all these running apps and stuff so I did turn siri and some few things off and it surprisingly improved my battery health a lot. So I don’t know if that’s how the iPhone 8s are. And also if you wanna buy this get the red one its beautifullllll😍. Mine came a with 0 scratches very neat with the charger( not original but its still very good) all nicely in a white box and you can buy this with confidence because you know there’s a 30 day or i think three months free return. And also I wanted to use this with simple mobile but it didn’t work so I currently use h2o wireless which is bum a**. Hope this review helped its 💯 percent honest. Edit- you can fix the camera sound by downloading apps such as Microsoft Pix which allows you to turn off camera shutter sounds, other than that you’ll have to jailbreak your phone.
STAY AWAY From APPLE products! When Apple’s Marketing Chief Phil Schiller gave his blessing to the iPhone X, "So if you happen to be hanging by the pool, drop your phone in the water... don't worry, dive down, grab it, rinse it, let it dry, you'll be fine.” You would *Think* Apple would stand by its product. WRONG! As it happened to me, I stopped my phone in shallow water, only 3 feet deep, for a few seconds, and IMMEDIATELY my phone bricked. I purchased my iPhone X for $1199 and I would expect my phone would last a few years and have the peace of mind that my phone would still work after that incident. Well I was more than angry when Apple would not even attempt to replace my product, but charges me $549 to replace with a $#%$ refurbished product. The Staff at genius bar were snobby and would not even care! You work hard for you money, you spend your hard earn dollars for a good quality product, but APPLE is only scamming you and stealing from you! THINK ABOUT IT! Don’t buy what they advertise unless they guarantee it! PERIOD!
I'm going to do a blunt review: 1. The phone came in three days, which was an awesome surprise because it had originally said 7. 2. The phone is looks new. No scratches, no dents. 3. It didn't come charged and booted up in about 5 minutes after plugging it in. 4. The phone WAS unlocked and the original language preference was set to Spanish. Aha. 5. It took a bit of "oomf" to open the sim card tray. I was a tad nervous after multiple attempts, but I pushed just a bit harder on the last try and the tray basically fell out. 6. About the battery: My battery health is at 81%. I've used it for about 3 hours at a rapid pace, downloading apps, setting stuff up -- and it did drain a tad, but I wouldn't expect anything different. I can bet money that it'll stay charged for at least another 4-5 hours with minimal usage. For anyone complaining about the battery, it's because of one or both reasons: A. You're simply glued to it and won't put it down. B. You have notifications on for everything, maybe maximum brightness, maybe multiple widgets? I highly recommend keeping these off, but I can't speak for everyone. What I do know is this: If you NEED all of those things, I'd recommend replacing the battery with something new. You can grab a DIY replacement for about $20 - you do NOT need to go to Apple for their specific battery. If you're like me that really could careless about having notifications/multiple widgets/etc on, the battery is literally FINE. 7. The device is extremely responsive and FAST. 8. It looks and feels sleek - was even thinner then I expected. 9. The rose-gold color is beautiful. 10. The device came with 5gb used out of 64gb. After downloading an intense amount of apps, I've used 7.4gb/64. Pretty awesome to not have to worry about space! 11. I think the price-point is fantastic for what you're getting. Yes, in about 2 years, updates will stop releasing on this model phone. However, considering how little malware lingers on iOS, I think it's safe to say the phone will last as long as you take care of it. 12. The camera is gorgeous, and the front-facing camera is one of the best I've seen to date. 13. The headphone jack works, the speakers work, the thumbprint lock works. 14. The phone is compatible with T-Mobile and AT&T. I'm really unsure about the others. 15. Don't go crazy over the negative reviews. I was starting to psyche myself out and almost didn't buy it, but i'm happy I did. Should anything not be up-to-par, I'm sure it's either fixable or returnable.
Ok I got a space gray iPhone XS with 256GB and I was happy to get it, it came in a odd box but I didn’t really care about that I got the phone and there are dings and scratch’s on The outer metal case of the phone and I can tell that I he front glass and LCD scream were replaced be the screen kinda drags the image like on a old computer we’re the image stays for a second, that was one thing I was annoyed about that but the second thing was that it sound like the bottom speaker was broken at one point and they bought another one but it is a really cheap speaker because at certain points it has a pitch of sound with it and it just doesn’t sound good the speaker next to the Face ID camera works perfectly just the one at the bottom of the phone is really bad me personally I don’t care if it has dings or scratch’s on the outer Metal frame of the phone it just really annoys me when they replace the speaker with a bad one and that they get a cheaper LCD screen just to save a little bit of money I mostly notice the bad cream when I’m scrolling on instagram, Twitter or YouTube it’s when you are scrolling that it is the most noticeable problem wouldn’t buy again if I new they replaced parts with bad ones also battery gets kinda worm/hot when charging or on FaceTime and sometimes just randomly but that may just happen when running powerful or changing so that may just be normal not to sure but the battery stays charged all day so not too worried about the battery
I have had the phone for several days now. Everything functions perfectly - camera, battery life, speakers, face recognition, etc., and it looks brand new. I read several reviews that mentioned that you can’t turn the camera click off - no problem here. And there was no issue getting it set up with our service provider (Sprint). When considering buying this phone based on reviews, consider a few things: this is hundreds of dollars cheaper than buying one new, Amazon’s return service is impeccable so if worst comes to worst, just return it and get another one, and also consider the fact that on average only roughly 10% of people even bother writing Amazon reviews and that a majority of the people leaving 1 star reviews probably wouldn’t have written a review at all if everything checked out like this phone did (I almost forgot to write a review myself). Then consider the fact that a majority of reviewers gave the phone 5 stars and you begin to see how if you’re interested in saving money this is an excellent route as you’re not likely going to do much better than this for the money.
Please read before buying: My phone has been holding up great after a month of using it. Only problem is my phone was made for the Japanese/Chinese market and my camera shutter sound won’t turn off. Other than that... Battery is great, face ID is amazing, but after reading a lot of the reviews I’d say that I wouldn’t recommend buying from this seller. They are difficult to contact and if you have any problems they seem to turn you away and blame the buyer. Yes, it’s a good deal considering this phone was originally sold at $1000, but i’ve read reviews that the phone was locked because of the difference in country, it was originally stolen or the phone plan hasn’t been entirely paid off. Also, their “refurbishments” aren’t really refurbishments. Again, I feel like I got extremely lucky with my phone. There’s only one problem that really isn’t that big of a problem. But please, if you really want a good quality phone for around this price, check with your carrier and see if they have some discounted phones or refurbished phones that are actually refurbished. Better safe than scammed.