Well???? I love my Pixel 2 XL. I have had this phone for less than 2 weeks since I made the MAJOR investment in purchase this ($900 something). I got it in a timely fashion. Right out of the box I was impressed. I love the single lens camera look and the fingerprint sensor on the back. Where it should be. After doing a battery drain and charging it back up to 100% I began to us it and I am very impressed. It seems quicker/snappier than its predecessors. The real selling point is the PURE Android experience. It doesn’t have the ads and extra apps like Facebook, Uber, IHeart Radio and Carrier Apps. It only comes with 21 (last I counted) pre-installed apps. On my old phone I jail broke/ rooted it to get the features to do what this phone already comes with. Like killing apps in the back ground and limiting permissions on what apps can have access to. (Why does the calculator need access to your phone book???) Also, the battery life is OUTSTANDING. I tend to use my phone for my business which makes it my second most important tool for what I do. I will have it fully charged at 6:30 in the morning with heavy use during the day. It will still be around 20% at 8 o’clock that night. The automatic music identifier is a great touch as is the camera. I have taken a lot of pics with it and this is the absolute best I’ve ever used or seen. For the average user like me I will never get the full use out of it but, it is good to know it is there. One of the few things I am disappointed about is the Google Photos. I am not good with how it tries to identify everyone in the pics and try to ask you their names. Which it send your photos to the Google Cloud. At this point I feel like I am feeding the “Beast”. So I use a third party app for my photos. Another problem that I had was in the first 72 hours my phone kept saying that Google has stopped. Nothing worked after that. I turned it on and off and it still was doing the same thing. I checked for an update which there was and it took care of the problem. But, my real problem is with Google themselves. Two weeks after I bought my phone the prices dropped by $200. So I called and inquired about getting in on this deal and they said that I would have to return my phone and order a new one. First of all, who does that? For an older person like me it takes 3 days to get my phone just the way I want it. So this would mean I would have to put my info back on my old phone (Nexus 6) then transfer it again when I get my new phone. That is just too much trouble. So if I return it they can keep it. I will just get a Xiaomi Mi Mix 2s. It’s still $200 cheaper with the discount that Google is giving. I am very disappointed in how Google is handling my situation. I’m pretty sure I am going to return it because it is the principle of it. But, still I refuse to go to Apple due to their control freak OS and I will go back to a flip phone before going to a Samsung. Also, they didn’t send me a survey after I hung up on them
I used to wish I had a Pixel 3/3XL instead of my S8+, but I always told myself I would wait for the Pixel 4 to release before blowing a load of cash on a shiny new google device. I used my Pixel 4 for a day before returning it. Pros: 1. Fantastic software - The entire interface, assistant, and just general "all built in" feel of using the phone is fantastic. However, Google is at it's core a software company, so this would make sense. It's THEIR ecosystem. We can only expect this. 2. Solid build quality. Feels like a great phone. Responsive and clear display. 3. The camera. I'm gonna miss this. It's pretty great and the magic google works on your photos often works out to make them look instagram/facebook/twitter ready without any tweaking. Cons: 1. The battery life. I can not even begin to state what a huge, massive, gaping CON this is. The night I got it I used it a bit, got the battery down, and gave it a full charge in the morning and started the day with a full battery at about 10 AM. By 6:30 PM with minimal use over the course of the day here and there, 30 minutes of bluetooth music streaming in my car, some browsing etc., it got down to 9%. NOW, like I said, it was at 9% at 6:30 PM. What happened next was amazing. I hopped on the phone and opened Chrome, and while just browsing the web watched the battery drop percent by percent from 9% to dead over the course of SEVEN MINUTES. It just kept ticking down right in front of my eyes. Almost 10% battery life gone over seven minutes of web browsing. This totally blew me away. In case you haven't caught on to everyone's point of judgment yet, the pixel 4 actually has less battery capacity than the Pixel 3. This was huge mistake on Google's part. This device consumes more battery life from a lower total supply. Unforgivable. 2. The whole telephoto thing... Google did a regular lens and a telephoto lens. No ultra-wide. They gave some reason why but it was a bad reason based on how "they feel." 3. The price. This is a flagship and is priced like a flagship, but is falling short of cheaper alternatives like the Oneplus 7T. I'm really bummed that this phone didn't work out for me. I just absolutely can not tolerate my phone dying after ~3.5 hours of use. I can't even imagine if I had tried playing Pokemon Go on it or something battery intensive. What if I were in another country and were relying on this thing? It just really doesn't work. I would have dealt with everything/almost anything else if not for the battery life issue. I hope that google really feels some serious scathing pain over this device pushing them to do a better job next year, because I REALLY wanted a good Pixel, but I won't be shocked if by then Amazon has released a phone that outperforms it in every way attached to their own ecosystem, like they have done with countless other products. This could have all been easily figured out and resolved of course, had the company made the specs of their phone public far earlier. The cries of "what are they thinking?" could have possibly allowed them to quickly pivot and resolve these issues, but instead they waited until a week before release to show off their paperweight. This has to some degree turned into rambling. I'm annoyed, I'm disappointed, I expected better. Just don't buy this phone. UPDATE: Due to a newer review stating that I "must have had my phone on max brightness streaming 4K video" I'm making this update to clarify my usage even further. I had the phone on adaptive brightness as most people would, and at no point did I stream video. It also looks like fake reviews are starting to pop up. I have no idea what the review about "google haters and iphone lovers" is about.
I was unimpressed with this phone and returned it after 1 day of use. It wasn't that it was a terrible phone, but it felt to me like a phone of half the price masquerading as a top-shelf product. It just isn't. It didn't compare well to my 2+ year old Motorola Droid Turbo, which I switched back to and am still using. Here were the issues I had: - The screen was low quality by several metrics. This is by far the worst thing about this phone. It's reasonably HD in terms of pixel count, but the colors were noticeably more drab and less vibrant than on my droid turbo. Also, for some reason a bunch of images that look super crisp and wonderful on my droid looked pixelly on this phone (I guess hence the name 'pixel'). This wasn't just due to the difference in pixel density either. And here's the worst part: the screen is grainy, as others have complained about. You notice it more on light colors like webpage backgrounds, but it's everywhere. It looks like everything, and I mean everything, has a papery texture to it. I guess this could be a plus for a select few people, but to me it indicates a lower quality screen and could be pretty maddening. Finally, also as others have noticed, it has a pretty strong blue tint at an angle. Not a deal breaker for me on its own, but combined these all make for a pretty crappy screen. Worse than any other phone I've previously owned. - The camera (which is billed as a highlight) just wasn’t that good. Again, the photos on my droid turbo look crisper and the colors look better. What’s all the hype about? Thoroughly unimpressed. - No headphone jack is a big turnoff for me. It comes with an adapter, but it’s long and the connection is not that solid, and it goes into the bottom of the phone so it’s going to be upside down if it’s in your pocket. - It’s pretty plain jane as far as features go. There’s simply not that much to recommend it. A very ‘vanilla’ phone for such a hefty price. The fingerprint recognition to unlock is a nice touch, though the angle of it is awkward when you’re actually holding the phone. On-screen fingerprint recognition would be ideal. All in all, if this phone were priced half of what it currently is, I think it’d be a decent buy. As is, I really don’t know what the hype is about. Get an older, better phone, or wait for these to improve.
Sorry to review this on Amazon, but I purchased my Pixel 2 xl from Project Fi and they don't provide a method for review ANYWHERE. Wanted to love this phone so much that I waited months after placing my order for it to ship. The bells and whistle, super camera, sleek design, Squeeze to activate assistant, etc. were super exciting, but I really wanted something with killer basic features too. My 4 1/2 year old Samsung Galaxy Note 3 was awesome, but just getting old, not holding a charge and suffering from screen burn in. First off, out of the box = the eSim set up (for Project Fi )seems cool but tons of stuff doesn't transfer - phone contacts, etc. took an extra step. So it's only somewhat cool as a way to set it up. Was looking forward to setting up Android Pay and using my phone to pay, couldn't reliably set up my old phone to do that, but to set up Android Pay you are required to use one of the Lock features for the phone, which makes perfect sense. I chose Smartlock using a numerical code as the setup procedure recommends that as the most secure. Then I set my home as a Trusted Place so that I wouldn't have to unlock the device every time I picked it up at home. This feature doesn't really work and, since trying to set it up, I've found many complaints about this among reviewers. When leaving my home the lock feature is supposed to activate. Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't. This means that if I lose my phone at the store, I'm potentially leaving a non-passwd protected credit card laying around for anyone to use. When I return to my home the "trusted place' feature always works once - the first time I use the phone after arriving. Every time after that the phone no longer recognizes that it is in the 'trusted place' and I have to unlock it. I was REALLY sucked in by all the ads for how fast this phone charges. Absolutely not. I plugged my phone in at 9:50 pm with an 8% charge, and it reached 100% at 12:20 - 2 1/2 hours later. That is much slower than my 4 1/2 year old Samsung phone, which can still charge fully from a 4% charge in 45 to 50 minutes. This is an absolute fail as far as I'm concerned. Many people complain about the blue tint of the screen when not looking at the screen dead on. It's there, but for some reason doesn't bother me. I DON'T tilt my screen. But I'm not watching movies on the phone, so don't know if it would be a pain under other circumstances. Haven't explored the camera features. Don't want to fall in love with them till I know if I'm keeping the phone. Would have liked to see a future when I could charge this phone cordlessly. Thought everybody was doing that now, but, apparently that will never happen with this phone. When I called Google customer support to get help with my complaints - hoping they were just problems with settings - the rep was super friendly but basically admitted that Project Fi and Pixel phones are "works in progress". Her words. That 'everything is beta' mentality of Google's is fine for free ChromeOS on my $250 Chromebook, but for a phone that cost $850 on a network that doesn't deliver on it's central promise (cheap and agile), it's not cool.
When friends ask me about my Pixel 2, I tell them "it's all right". I've been using an iPhone 4 for the past 5 years, so I was looking forward to this phone feeling like a significant upgrade. However, after 2 weeks of using the Pixel 2, it seems my expectations were too high. Compared to iOS, most things on Pixel 2 feel different but rarely better (or worse, to be fair). For example, Google Assistant feels just as limited as Siri - it's only helpful about 20% of the time I use it. Having everything on my phone synced with my web browser (Chrome) is nice, albeit a bit unnerving - I'm constantly reminded about just how much personal information Google has stored. It's cool being able to sign into a site on my phone for the first time using saved login information from my computer, but this feature is a bit inconsistent and does not always work when I expect it to. I like being able to edit notification settings directly from the app icons on my desktop, but overall I feel like I receive far more notifications than I used to on my iPhone (I think because apps on iOS ask upfront if you want notifications whereas on the Pixel 2 you have to seek out these settings). Speaking of notifications, my phone alerted me my cable bill was do in 24 hours - a bill I had already paid a week prior. I think the phone scanned my emails for bill notifications, yet missed the email confirming I paid. Again, I was a bit unnerved that the phone (or Google, or whatever) is scanning my emails. Naive, I know. The camera's nice, though I still get grainy shots when the lighting isn't great (which may be expected?). Camera quality is neither my priority nor something I know much about so I'm unable to say more than pictures look much better than what I used to get on my dated iPhone. I've really only had 1 bad experience so far: I had to download 5-6 different podcast apps to find one that had all of the functionality I was seeking. For whatever reason, Google's default player, Play Music (not to be confused with Play Store, which is a different default app with a similar triangle logo) is missing one of the podcasts I regularly listen to, and a few of the apps I tried that do have this show were missing functionality I wanted. I eventually found an app called Podcast Republic which seems to suit my needs. All in all, it was a hassle to find what I liked, especially compared to iOS where the default podcast player served me so well. One last note: an app (Animal Crossing) stopped working after an update but restarting my phone resolved the issue. Just like a computer, it seems restarting is now the go-to first step in resolving issues, which is certainly manageable but not ideal. Pixel 2 is fine, I slightly regret the purchase mainly because I had such high hopes. I think I would have preferred an iPhone simply for the familiarity (again, I don't feel Android is worse than iOS, I just don't believe the differences are actual improvements).
I've had the Pixel XL 2 for almost a month now, and can conclusively say it is the best phone I have ever used. My previous phones in order of last use: Note 8, iPhone 7, HTC 10, S7 edge, Nexus 6P, etc. Of all my previous phones, the Pixel XL 2 reminds me the most of the 6P, but it supersedes it in every category. Screen 8.5: There is a lot of commentary about how awful this screen is that you'd think it was unusable or caused blindness. That couldn't be further from the truth. This OLED screen is gorgeous. Blacks are pitch black, so contrast is infinite. Images pop in saturated mode just like any Samsung OLED screen, but saturated mode looks awful just like Samsung screens do. Those colors aren't real. You have three color modes: natural (sRGB), boosted and saturated. If you want a near-perfect accurate screen in sRGB mode, this screen will give you that. If you want saturation, now you have the option also. As for screen grain and uneven distribution of colors, those are defects. Return your phone for an exchange if you see any of that. I'm coming from a Note 8, and I honestly only notice ONE difference between the two screens: brightness. The Note 8 was much brighter outside. But indoors, I have the exact same experience. Responsiveness 10: Most responsive phone in existence. Shames the Note 8 with 6GB of RAM. I even find it smoother than the latest iPhone 8. Google is up to something here, and it shows. I've gone through a lot of phones in the last 3 years, and this is the first month I've spent with a phone where I did not want to immediately go back to a previous device. I tap, things open. I click home, and things close. Immediately. No hangs. No stutters. No nonsense. I don't do games. So pretty much all my apps stay in memory, and multi-tasking is immediate. If you game, you'll find yourself reloading since there is only 4gigs of ram here. Software 10: There is no smarter phone out there. It is simple, unobtrusive, quick, responsive, right when you need it and beautiful. Very iPhone-like. But it outdoes Apple in ways I never thought possible. Google assistant tells you your commute right when you get up, and it responds by a simple squeeze. You can unlock the phone by saying: "Ok Google." It unlocks by your voice only, so it's safe. At this point, I find every single google offering better than what apple has on their iPhones: google docs, google music, google photos, etc. Camera 10: The camera is a bit ridiculous. It is just mind-boggling how much better this camera is compared to everything else out there. It is a simple point and shoot. No dual camera. No manual controls except for exposure level. But the amount of detail on the images is stunning. The pictures look very "PixelESQUE." I know immediately if I'm looking at a Pixel shot due to the sheer amount of detail. The Note 8 photos I shoot look soft and extremely saturated compared to everything that comes out of the Pixel 2 XL. Google is already THE LEADER without a second camera, if they add a second lens next year, the competition is in for some work. Battery Life 10: I'm getting around 6-7 hours of screen on time with 13-16 hours in between charges. I have NEVER had this type of battery with a phone. Usage differs between users, so those stats don't mean much for other people. The Pixel 2 XL also comes with first-of-a-kind tech on Android where battery adapts to the user and reports accurate battery life based on usage. It learns your patterns. This is the definition of a smartphone. If you want the best phone out there right now, you have three options: iPhone 8Plus/X, Note 8 and the Pixel XL 2. In my experience, the only thing these phones have that are superior to the Pixel line is the screen. But it is not the enormous difference people are making it out to be. It is the difference between a perfect 10 to an 8.5, and I only give the Pixel XL 2 a score of an 8 because it is technically inferior: it turns bluer than the competition at slighter angles, it is less bright, it suffers from black smearing when the screen is at 0% brightness, etc. These problems are technical for a reason. You don't notice them unless you're looking for them. The great majority of users do not look at images at angles or measure light deviations at angle intervals; most people do not use their phones at 0% brightness, and if they do, it is most likely a quick exercise. If you're hesitant about purchasing this phone due to screen issues, do not be. The screen is still magnificent in its own right, and a pleasure to use.
Truly the BEST phone I have ever used! This is coming from a person who was burned...(TWICE)... by Google and the Pixel 1's faulty microphone. However I'm a forgiving kind of guy and man am I glad I got over my first experience with Pixel devices and ordered this one! Ok, so what's so good about this phone, huh? EVERYTHING! The phone is super fast and snappy with any APP I use. I'm a heavy gamer and this phone has been able to easily play any games IV thrown at it. Plus they look amazing with the screen in this phone. The OLED screen is such a treat for my eyes. Deep, rich, and vibrant...I love watching movies with it! And I know you've all heard about the "hideously huge notch" and how it just ruins everything..... Well, I barely notice it. In fact there are some neat apps that can do some really cool things with the notch like putting a color changing strip around it that will work as notification alert or battery bar. And that leads perfectly to the next great thing, the battery. I am a very heavy user and the battery will last me almost the entire day. The speed charger is blazingly fast so if I should have to plug it in before the days up, it only takes about 10-15 mins to get 25-30%. Then there's the fact that Pixel users get all the updates first. I love rubbing that in Samsung users faces! Let's see....what am I forgetting..... Ahhh yes, saved the best for last. The camera. There aren't words to describe how damn good the camera really is. I still can't believe a cellphone can take pictures like this. Blows my mind. It has actually inspired me to take up photography as a hobby. Not to mention Google will backup and store an UNLIMITED amount of photos and videos for FREE! Yeah, yeah, I know I sound like Googles little fanboy. Hell I admit I am. No shame here! Just go ahead and get this phone and I promise you'll be a fanboy/fangirl too! Theres alot of other great features to this phone that I haven't mentioned so I guess you'll just have to get one and see for yourselves. Trust me you won't regret it! Oh yea, I did buy mine refurbished and it looked like new. Not a scratch on it. the only difference was it came without the original charger. But it refurbed and save yourself few bucks. Now go get PIXELING!
This review is of the white 64GB Pixel 4 (non XL) that I received from Amazon on 10/21/19. I have used it for exactly 48hrs so far and here is my early impressions – Good stuff – 1. The build quality is impressive. The matte back is fingerprint resistant and the phone is a beauty! 2. The dual (Stereo) speakers are loud and have good clarity. 3. Fast charger is included with the phone. Bad stuff – Unfortunately this is a longer list. 1. Battery life is miserable. The phone has a 2800mAh battery that lasted me 18hrs with <30 minutes of screen on time. These 18hrs also included an 8hr of sleep time at night, so users will need to charge this at least twice daily, even with minimal usage. 2. The 90Hz screen is mostly limited to 60Hz. You’ll have to enable “Force 90Hz” option in “Developer settings” if you want to use it in its full glory. 3. The face unlock struggles in dark. It also sometimes does not work until you press the power button to activate the phone (I have radar on, so the phone does know my presence). In absence of other biometric options, a crappy face unlock isn’t ideal. One out of 3 times I had to enter my PIN, as the Face Unlock did not work. Most importantly, it works even with eyes closed, so it means someone can unlock your phone while you are sleeping by just pointing it at your face. 4. There isn't a USB-C earphone included with the phone. 5. There isn't a USB-C to 3.5mm dongle included with the phone to use with headphones. 6. Free unlimited storage on Google Photos is being discontinued with the Pixel 4 and Google wants you to pay for cloud storage. 7. Base model is only 64GB, which is tiny for a phone in 2019. 128GB should have been the base model or at least a memory card slot should have been included. 8. No dual front facing camera like the Pixel 3. 9. No wide angle rear camera – This is a big deal for a 2019 flagship phone. Those who watched the Pixel 4 launch keynote, you know how stupid they sounded when they tried to justify the inclusion of telephote over wide angle. 10. No 60fps or higher video recording at 4K. Google cited that the limited internal storage is the reason they have not enabled higher fps at 4K, even though the hardware is capable. I am speechless…can’t they just give the users an option? 11. Too expensive at $799 for a flagship phone in 2019 with the above flaws. I am going back to my OnePlus phone, which isn’t flawless by any means, but is a very good phone for what it offers and the price it comes at. I can't recommend the Pixel 4 to anyone and don't know if the audience that Google is trying to sell this to, actually exists. If you really want a Pixel, get the 3a...it is a great phone at a very good price!
Have been using Android over 10 years and carrying Pixels the last 4 years. Love stock Android. I don't usually buy phones at launch, but I caved this year. Don't care about the camera, but if this is important for you, look no further. Like it's predecessors, this phone takes nice photos. Cool design, premium feel, and a modestly updated feature set. Android is still Android after all. The phone does feel good in your hand. Screen is very nice and the 90hz refresh is noticeably smooth. If you've been reading reviews, you've probably read all this elsewhere. I do want to like this phone and am going to give it a chance, but I'm going to be merciless if the device doesn't stand up to reasonable everyday use. What do I mean by this? We bought two phones but I've only opened one of them to evaluate. Set up was easy. Connect your devices and less than 10 min later, everything was transferred. Apps installed, then they updated. Ready for testing. WiFi and Bluetooth connection were fast and solid. One thing I was quite impressed with was the sound. After using earlier pixels with front firing speakers I was a little worried. Nothing to worry about here. Sound quality is very good (full and rich), and the gesture navigation skip forward and back worked for me as well, boom! 4K videos looked good and so did ones shot in 1080p. Face unlock. This was another "on the fence" item for me. Cool feature and it works, but now they have it all. Our fingerprints from the last generation of phones can now be linked with our faces. Works perfectly in pitch black darkness. Infrared wins. I still have the same (major) concerns as others. The 2800mah battery is tiny. I am extremely skeptical here, but hope I can be proven wrong. No unlimited original res photo storage. I know Google is in business to make money, but what a chump thing to do. It's right up there with them not including a headphone adapter or headphones this time around. So this is the price you pay or accessories you forego to have the latest tech. I believe this could have been done better or differently. It's a flagship phone, or at least that's what Google is calling it. Congrats Google, you've cut just about every corner you possibly could with this device. What's next. Let's see how the device performs in real day-to-day usage. In the car, in a pocket with Bluetooth and the normal stuff we all do with our devices. The TINY subpar battery had better be good. Otherwise 2 of these phones are coming right back to you. My suggestion, if you didn't jump on the launch deal is WAIT. The phone is nice, but the potential for disappointment is there. Black Friday and Christmas are just around the corner too. ***Update Daily use Call and audio quality is good, using a BT headset also good. Streaming music to the cars audio system working well. Android 10 has a few quirks, but is working and very stable. I haven't had any performance issues with the device or its OS. Although I had WiFi calling on my 3XL (AT&T) , it will not activate on this device. May I have to call them to see why. ***Update after 3 weeks of ownership While I am fully sold on the Face Unlock feature, I still miss the finger print reader. Its just something you become used to after years of pixel ownership. I've only caught myself trying to unlock the phone about 3 times with my finger. I set up face unlock without glasses, but it works when I put on reading glasses, and also while wearing sun glasses (that one is amazing). One thing people and (google) haven't thought of. Currently, Face Unlock works even your eyes are closed. Google has said they are going to release an update that addresses this. Ok, so what happens when I'm wearing sunglasses? Trusted Devices or Places will probably address this. My phone stays unlocked in the car and at home or work. But if you are outside walking around and wearing sun glasses, you might have to PIN into the device or lift your sunglasses. This is still an unknown I guess. I called AT&T and we determined the IMEI of the phone was not "whitelisted" on their network. Hence the reason why I couldn't activate Wi-Fi calling. It took them 3 days, but they re-provisioned the SIM (remotely) and added the ID. Wi-Fi Calling works now. If you have this problem with a new phone (any brand) that is compatible with voLTE and Wi-Fi calling, but was not purchased through your carrier (subsidy) there is always a possibility that the phone will not be "whitelisted". You have to call customer care and be really nice. I got lucky the first time I called, sometimes it takes more than one call. The second device (other P4) which is also with AT&T (but a different plan) will not allow Wi-Fi to be activated either, so this means another call to the carrier. Hand off between Cellular and Wi-Fi or vice versa works 98% of the time. I've had a few dropped calls say when I'm walking into work or the house and the phone transitions from Cellular to Wi-Fi. Mostly however, it works and is stable. For those who have had Google Fi, you'll know exactly what I am talking about. Wi-Fi calling capable devices attempt to switch aggressively whenever they can move voice calls to Wi-Fi. The new Google Assistant is very good. The AI they have built into the core of the OS is impressive. Not needing a cellular or Wi-Fi connection to use it makes it extremely fast. For me, this is probably the most notable upgrade from a Android/hardware perspective. BIGGEST concern >> the 2800mah battery. Remarkably, the phone lasts all day and well into the next morning without being charged. I had concerns about going to sleep with a low battery and having the phone die during the night and then no alarm in the morning. Well, it hasn't been a problem. I typically have 17-30% percent remaining in the morning and can easily throw the phone on charge before leaving the house. I have the "always on" display turned on, and allow all notifications to display on my lock screen. I have gesture navigation enabled which keeps the soli radar chip active and looking for gestures above the device when its stationary. I stream videos and play music over Bluetooth in the car. I also use navigation when walking frequently. Normal use and the battery has held up well. This is really a matter of personal preference and your usage. Initial reviews said 3-4 hrs of screen time should be expected. I'm getting 5-6hrs. If you are on your phone for hours a day, or play games, get the XL. In closing, I have found myself >>inconvenienced<< more than once since the phone did not come with a USB-C to 3.5mm headphone adapter. I have headphones, but have been left to work one handed because I don't have my BT headset with me. Google > BIGGEST CHUMP MOVE EVER. Really pissed me off. I've ordered one. Tired of the inconvenience. With that said, my original recommendation stands. If you cannot buy the P4 or XL at a serious discount, WAIT. It is not worth the full retail price, regardless of the new "features". Its over priced for what you get, and Google has cut way too many corners seriously detracting from the value you receive vs. cost of the device at full price. Still 64GB of storage, small 2800mah battery, no adapters, no headphones, no unlimited full res photo storage.. Other people have said this too. Google has had several chances to build and release good devices. They just can't get it right. You pay for a flagship and there is always a compromise. In the case of the P4, its one after another. ***Final Update 6 weeks of ownership. I am enjoying the phone and it's working as I intended. I had Android 10 on my 3XL so no surprises there. As usual Google continues to improve and refine it's OS. Everything just works. This is why I buy Pixels. While I like the phone, this years Pixels did not wow me like those of previous years. It's a phone, it's running the latest version of Android but that's about it. The new AI built into the Google Assistant remains the most noteable "feature" from an upgrade perspective for me. But like before, that's it. The premium price tag is just disproportional to the value you are receiving. I am a fan of Android, but this year Apple and OnePlus nailed it from a hardware perspective. Cost to value ratio. They came through where you (Google) failed. The P4 isn't even 2 months old and most carriers are practically giving them away. Not to mention Google has substantially increased trade in values for older devices to entice new buyers. Which leads me to ask.. Google are you giving up on Pixel? Does this mean Samsung and OnePlus devices for everyone next year. Man you guys got some black eyes this year. All avoidable too. I can say this. Nice phone, but I won't buy your device at launch next year. Everyone, I urge you to heed these words. Do not pay full price for this device. I'm not saying don't buy it, but don't buy it at full price.
I have been using the Google Pixel 2 XL every day for over two months. It is by far the best phone I have used. I will lay out the pros and cons in this review to help you make your decision on whether to purchase this phone. Pros Battery Life - Routinely lasts all day with over 50% remaining, which means that even if you forget to charge up overnight, it will last most of the next day with regular use. Speakers - The Pixel 2 XL features dual front-facing stereo speakers. They provide a fantastic experience while listening to music or watching videos. Camera - The Camera on this phone is one if its biggest selling points. The rear camera is a 12.2 MP sensor with dual LED flash and OIS (optical image stabilization). It is capable of video capture of 2160p at 30fps or 1080p at 120,60, or 30 fps. The front facing camera is an 8 MP sensor capable of 1080p video. The performance in any lighting condition is unmatched by any other flagship smartphone. UI - One of the biggest advantages to owning the Pixel 2 XL is a that it is a Google phone, so you get pure Android with updates as soon as they are published by Google. Cons Audio - The biggest issue with this phone is the lack of a 3.5mm audio jack. This means you will have to rely on the included USB-C to 3.5mm adapter. It is an inconvenience at times and does make it impossible to charge the phone and use wired headphones simultaneously. Screen - The Pixel 2 XL has a 6” P-OLED display at a resolution of 1440x2880 with a pixel density of 538 ppi (pixels per inch). Under most conditions the screen is fantastic, with settings to change the saturation to your liking. The issue is a noticeable blue-shift when viewed at extreme viewing angles that you are unlikely to encounter during regular use. Conclusion The Google Pixel 2 XL is a great phone with enough pros to outweigh the cons. I recommend this phone to anyone looking for an upgrade. Even iPhone users should consider the Pixel if they are interested in Android. While I can’t make any decisions for you, I hope this review helped make that decision easier.
I’ve had the Google Pixel 2 XL for about two months now, and I can honestly say that it is the best phone that I have ever had, and that’s coming from an Apple enthusiast. I bought the 2 XL after having owned the IPhone 4 and 5s. Apples IPhone’s don’t even compare to Google’s Pixel 2 XL, and here’s why. Let’s start with the screen. Sporting the latest OLED panel made by Samsung, the Pixel 2 XL can achieve some of the darkest blacks and brightest whites on the market. Due to the massive 6.2-inch OLED screen, a bluish haze can appear, which is a common problem with OLED screens. Honestly, it’s not very noticeable unless you are really looking for it. Today’s smartphones are becoming bezelless, meaning the front of the phone is virtually all usable screen (see picture below). The Pixel 2’s small bezels are only necessary because of two front-facing speakers that honestly sound crystal clear. They can reach high volumes without distortion, and for someone like me who watches to a lot of YouTube videos and listens to music, I prefer the stereo speakers. The Pixel 2 XL is one of the quickest and most responsive phones on the market. Because Google uses stock Android, paired with 8.1.0 Oreo, opening and closing apps is seamless. Typing gives a very satisfying vibrate and click noise with no lag giving the user a “taptic” feeling. Google Assistant is perfected with the new squeeze function, allowing for the quickest Google searches on any smart device. The rear located fingerprint sensor is placed right where the user’s pointer finger rests, unlocking the phone within the blink of an eye. Supplying power to this device Is one of the biggest batteries ever put into a smartphone. The quick charge of the 3520mAh allows for 7 hours of battery life in just 15 minutes! In total, I can get about 13 hours on a full charge with about 7 and a half hours of screen-on-time, which is an industry leading statistic! To be honest, I don’t take a whole lot of pictures, but that’s the Pixel 2’s bread and butter. Taking DSL quality pictures with only ONE rear-facing camera is one of the coolest aspects of this phone. Competitors like the Nexus 6P, Galaxy S8 Plus, and IPhone 10 all use a dual lens setup to allow for clear field of depth photos. The Pixel 2 XL’s single-camera does the exact same thing as the competitors, but better. Using software, which in my opinion looks 10 times better than a dual lens setup. I would recommend this product to anyone who wants to get away from the “Apple hype” but not necessarily transition straight into an android phone. The Pixel 2 Xl is the best of both worlds when it comes to merging the simplicity of an IOS operating system (Apple’s IPhone), and the customizable features of an Android (Samsung’s Galaxy 8) that the phone just feels pretty much perfect. Overall the Pixel 2 XL does everything an IPhone or Samsung does, but better. The screen is arguably the only downside due to the bluing issue; however, the software, google assistant, battery life, camera, and design make the Pixel 2 XL stand out in today’s smartphone market.
My wife and I have had our Pixel 2XL phones for a year. They have had minor inconveniences through out the entire year. I am just now writing to you here because I am getting NOWHERE with Google help desk. Here is my problems for both phones. There have been several times they wouldn't connect to any WiFi router and then I noticed that some of the apps were running very slow. It seems that after a factory update (at least every other one it seems) I need to reset our phones totally and use the backup to reinstall everything back on the phones. The phones will automatically restart with NO action asking for it. Now my biggest issue with my phone is that it is now taking over 10 hours to charge from 57% battery. I have a screen shot of it telling me that it is going to take 15 hours to charge from 10%. I have already tried cleaning out the charging port, and going through the Google automated line. Lets just say that after going through all the steps to try and fix the problem, it left my phone in safe mode. I had to yet again reset my phone. I called and finally spoke to a human being that could not speak English very well, but he manged to tell me that I needed to give Google my phone and they would see why it was acting the way it is. Oh, did I mention that that process was going to take 7 to 10 days? We use our phones for work purposes and cannot be without them that long. Again, I have contacted Google about my phone and not my wife's phone directly because of the issues we are having. I figured if I could get the fix on my phone, than I could use the same fix on hers. By this time, we just want to get away from these Pixel phones. In short, THESE THE WORST PHONES I HAVE EVER OWNED. I have been on a cell phone of one kind or another for over 20 years. We were talked into them and have not liked them the entire time we have had them. The customer service for Google is good, but they are more worried about making sure their product is seen in a good light instead of helping the actual customer out. I am posting this exact message on every message board I can find. All I am asking is to get out of these phones. I will spread this negative message everyday until I get the results I am looking for.
I have a pixel 2 phone that is less than a year old, under warranty, and in perfect condition. It started to have charging issues and eventually it stopped charging entirely. The problem is not the charger or the mechanics of the connector: my spouse has an identical phone, so it's easy to test the charging equipment and the connector is completely clean. Google "diagnosed" it over a web chat (all their service is from overseas, from my experience) and offered me an "advanced replacement", which amounts to them sending me a new phone, after which I send this one back. The problem is that any replacement process involves a web page that doesn't work. It has been 4 days since my phone died, and they still have not even started a replacement process: they send me a web link, I click on the web link, and I get a message "It's not you, it's us. We're working on fixing the problem. Check back soon." Any calls or chats to the company involve repeated requests from their representatives not to worry: they're working on it. No escalation path is provided, no alternative solutions; if you can't get their link to work, you don't move ahead, and their link doesn't work. Any self-respecting vendor would just send me another phone, but this dystopian giant demands that everyone follow the yellow brick road that leads to a precipice. No wonder people hate google! This is how outsize companies eventually end up being broken up. Edit: It's been a month since I wrote this review, and I've recovered from most of the frustration... Here's how it went: after 7 days, google sorted out it's webpage error, and I was able to return my first phone. Of course, I had to buy a cheap phone in the meantime, to the the tune of about $100. They promptly sent me a second phone (which you have to sign for at home, so have it sent to your place of work!). After about a week, I noticed the front-facing camera didn't work, so I went through the required hour of chat conversation and returned it. The second phone worked otherwise, so it wasn't that big a deal. The third phone arrived, and by this time I am really good at re-installing apps and backups, and this time I actually have the second phone to do it from, so it wasn't too bad. I went on vacation to Paris, and bingo, the third phone dies with a message: "Slot unbeatable: Load Error". This is the kiss of death. The phone is now a brick. When I get back from Paris next week, I'll start the return process yet again. Since I now have so much experience with the chat help, I can say that it's not bad (I correct my earlier statement disparaging the chat support), but the phone hardware is apparently garbage (in my experience), so my recommendation is DO NOT BUY ANYTHING FROM GOOGLE. And by the way, each time you do one of these returns, they put a $600 hold on your credit card. I have yet to see how that all works out!
I'm an iPhone user and bought the Pixel 4 for it's camera. I do a travel blog and I've been dragging a Nikon D7500 camera with an 18-300mm lens with me. The Pixel will allow me to put the "camera" in my pocket when I'm not using it. I've been testing the camera and It's not the same as the Nikon - it's better in low light but has some weaknesses in regular light. The zoom is good and bad. It will zoom well and give me a sufficiently sharp image - but the resolution (number of pixels) is not that large. If I crop the picture there's not many pixels left. In regular light, I find the color and contrast a bit "sharp" which makes the picture look a bit processed. I'm working on improving that with the adjustments I can do on the camera. The Pixel does provide RAW images but they don't give me as much adjustment range as the RAW images from my Nikon. Some people complain about the lack of a wide angle camera but I can always do a panorama. The battery should have been bigger so I'll get a battery case for it to make sure I have sufficient charge. It just makes the phone a bit thicker which I don't object to. Otherwise, I find that Android provides pretty much the same features and functionality as my iPhone but does them differently so there's a learning curve for me. Not really hard but it'll take time for me to be comfortable with it. Computational photography is obviously the future of photography and I expect that Google will make improvements to the camera over time. But for my use, I think the Pixel 4 will release me from having to lug around a big camera and lens. I bought the 128GB version to make sure I have enough memory for pictures, especially since I use the RAW function. I'll dump the pictures to my computer each night. I shoot more than four thousand pictures on a normal trip so dumping them off the phone each night is necessary. Overall, I'm pleased with the phone. I really need more time with it but it looks good so far.
So far after just a week I am going to stay with 5 stars. If that changes I will update the review. Its not perfect, but overall the good outweighs the bad. So here are my notes. Its the only Android I would consider because of security and Google updates. I would only ever buy an unlocked Apple or a Google phone - where the software vendor pushes the updates every month. Otherwise I'm not interested. If you buy another Android phone good luck getting major OS upgrades or even security patches. First, all the nitpicks about battery life: Yeah, its a small phone. Its not like Google put in a small battery just to mess with you. So far, it seems about the same as my Pixel 3 to me: just ok. Unless you work mostly in the wilderness its not really an issue just top off during the day occasionally. (I hike a lot in the wilderness, and I carry a battery pack for those times). So if you need guaranteed all day battery life buy the XL. OK that aside, its a bit faster than my Pixel 3. I noticed one web page in particular that is grossly javascript heavy would load very slowly on my pixel 3 and is much faster on my 4. I’m not a huge fan of the face unlock so far. The old fingerprint reader worked better for me most of the time – you could unlock it as you picked it up. Now I have to wait till I look at it. But I got over that. Its not bad either, and occasionally its better – Lastpass for example, unlocks itself. And heh, lets get real about the flaw that you can have your eyes closed. They plan to fix this, and its really not much less secure than a fingerprint as is. If you are sleeping or dead either one can be bypassed,. The size if just right I don’t want a giant phone. Likewise gestures took a bit of practice. I hate Iphones because of the no back button problem; now I don’t have one either. There is a swipe gesture instead, but its a little slower and less reliable than the old way. Still, I am resisting the temptation to enable the back button so far. The dual sim capability is amazing! I keep a Google Fi eSim onboard with Visible (Verizon MVNO) as my main carrier. The Pixel 4 does a dramatically better job of managing dual sims and either number rings now. Most of all I appreciate the Google commitment to privacy and security. (I could care less how many times they market my web history to advertisers, it doesn’t compromise my security.) I am disappointed I no longer get free full resolution camera uploads but can live with the free high resolution. And really, no earbuds included? Although I am very happy not to have the antiquated headphone jack and I have the google earbuds leftover from previous pixels which are great. I appreciate Amazon having the black Friday sale price of $599 and an extended return period in case it dies! So this phone is a keeper for me. I’ve had almost every Google phone ever made going back to day 1, and they just get a bit better with each iteration.
Professional reviews for phones are usually the best resource. However, that said, I think I should offer another perspective that isn't nearly as negative. In general, I think the reviewers were too harsh. Some of them even had me on the brink of canceling my order. Glad I didn't. I have the 64GB XL. Battery life - I am not seeing much difference from my Pixel 3. The horrible battery life mentioned in some reviews is not my experience. I consider myself an average smartphone user. I'm not a 16 year old on social media all day and I don't play games. I use it all day at work (email, text, in car for music, reading some blogs with videos, the occasional call) and a little at night. When I get home, I have over 50% left. I keep the always-on display on, I use motion sense, all the connection methods are on. The key here is that I don't see a big difference from my past phones. Also - you have to give the Android OS time to use its adaptive battery function to manage various aspects of the phone. It learns your usage patterns and adjusts. This results in better battery life. I saw many reviews where the author didn't give it time. HD Calling on AT&T - I bought this unlocked model on Amazon and when I swapped my SIM out, HD calling works normally. There might be an issue with corporate accounts but search the web and look at what some people did to circumvent it. This is an AT&T issue, not Google's. Motion Sense - no, it doesn't have a lot of active functionality yet, only track skipping and alarm snoozing (which is AWESOME). What many reviews fail to highlight enough is that it augments the face unlock feature by bringing your phone to attention when you reach for it. It also allows you to turn off the always-on display then have it wake only when you are near the phone. New assistant - pretty cool. Many of the basic requests are now handled on the phone, not requiring contact with Google servers. It really speeds things up. As of Nov 1, it does have little things that I hope Google works out. Face Unlock needs to be updated to prevent unlocks when your eyes are closed. It would be nice if Smooth Display (90Hz) worked more often - although, I think the display is awesome as is, it can only get better. Google is planning to fix those. More apps need to support face unlock and that's a total wildcard; depends on the app. LastPass supports it so that's sort of a gateway to your other apps. *UPDATE 11/19/19** Smooth Display (90Hz) has been corrected with the November security update. An already beautiful screen is even better now! Also - LastPass now supports Face Unlock. Finally, you can't deny this is an expensive phone. I got it for, basically, $100 off and that brought it closer to an acceptable price for me. But - it's a personal decision. You'll have to weigh the value and decide if it works for you. If you are considering this phone, I'll be honest, also consider the Pixel 3XL (or Pixel 3). Many of the new features on the 4 will make it to the 3. If you don't need to be on the cutting edge or the extra camera features, the 3/3XL is a great phone! However, you won't be disappointed by the 4XL. After a week of getting used to face unlock and the gestures, I really like this phone. NOTE ON MEMORY - My last two phones were 64GB. Prior to that, I bought 128GB. With my past two phones, I never ran out of space with 64GB. I keep several large music playlists downloaded, I upload all my images to Google Photos and delete them from my phone. Photos: No case. In a cloth case, you can hide the color for the most part if you want.
Completely not worth the money, and there is little to no improvement from the 3 or the 2. I upgraded from the 2 XL which was and is a really good phone, thinking there was more to this 4 XL. I upgraded my wife's iPhone 6s to the 11 pro and man - if I wasn't such an avid hater of iOS and all things Apple, I would take that phone in an instant. Pixel 4 XL Cons: Battery life sucks already. I can barely make 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., so I imagine this will degrade very fast in the near and distant future. I don't take a lot of pictures, but if I do video it drains quick. Watching videos the same situation. I don't use the phone hardly at all, and text message a lot, and I'm always below 15% every night. Audio port still gone for no reason I mean seriously? The bar across the top. Really? For a sensor that Samsung failed to spread with the Galaxy 5? Really? Swipe my hands really? No wide angle lens like the iPhone 11 pro, but yet a massive box on the back. Ugly. Vibration is still really poor. How can you not have this as a setting to increase? My legs are, as a result of decades of cell phone vibration, immune to Pixel vibration. Tried the iPhone 11 pro and it's much more noticeable. Sound volume still sucks. It just doesn't play loud enough, especially speaker phone. Like seriously it's mandatory to have wireless ear buds just so I can hear anything on my phone? Or a bluetooth speaker? Incessant Google Assistant - Quit asking me to set it up I'm not giving you my voice data regardless of how many times you ask. And last but not least, my biggest gripe with Google services in general - backups. There is ZERO support for full backups of your phone. Especially your SMS and MMS. ZERO. So if you don't use a 3rd party app on a regular basis to backup your phone, you are screwed. Don't ever let anyone tell you different, if you do a factory reset without a backup all of your app data including Messages will be erased and irretrievable. Shame on a billion dollar company to not 1 let you know ahead of time, 2 false advertising that it can even do backups and 3 doesn't provide backup options. SHAME SHAME. Pixel XL 4 Pros: 128 GB of storage? The 90 hz that I can't use in any app but is supposedly there? All in all I'm more than disappointed in myself for buying this thing, especially on launch day when it's dropped $200. And I'm just disappointed in Google. They ruined my experience and there's nothing new on this phone that I didn't already have on my 2 XL. Unfortunately I still like the Google ecosystem but this will be my last Google phone. I'd take that over priced Motorola Razor at least it has something new in it.
My wife’s phone started acting up so I gave her my 3 month old LG G8, and went about purchasing a replacement. I bought the pixel 4 initially and really liked it but the battery life left a lot to desire. I went with the XL and will share my thoughts. Design: No matter what color you get I like the look in the back and the square camera bump all looks nice. The contrasting power button and google logo looks nice. Interestingly enough the large awkward forehead on the 4, looks less so on the xl size might have something to with the 4 compact and narrow size vs the xl. While some people think phone looks dated or utilitarian, I find it attractive and kind of iconic. The pixel 4 is one of the few phones you can look at the front of it and identify what phone it is. Screen: The xl uses a samsung panel vs the lg panel the smaller sibling uses. You would think the higher ppi on the xl would make a significant difference, but I was not able to find it. It might just be that I prefer the lg panel as the QHD on the G8 was noticeable vs the full hd+ of the pixel 4. The 90 hz refresh is nice I would not call it a can’t live without it feature though. It does make scrolling more smooth, but I am not a gamer so that is really the only benefit for me. Feel: The xl is the biggest phone I have ever owned. It is amazing when you put it against the g8 it only seems slightly taller but then in the hand they feel different. I find the lg g8 is the perfect size phone with good one handed use and enough screen real estate to make searching comfortable. On the regular 4 it was too narrow and did not have enough room in landscape mode for the keyboard to enter data when browsing. The xl is large but is not so bad to operate one-handed. The xl size allows for better media consumption as well. Fack unlock: there is no fingerprint sensor and some people will bemoan the loss of it but the face unlock works reliably and quickly. The whole it unlocks with your eyes closed complaint which is corny to me and I will echo what others have said in that if you are worried about someone taking your phone while you are asleep and unlocking it, then you probably have bigger problems than a phone purchase. Camera: I am not a professional and I just want something that is easy to operate and that takes photos that look good. The pixel does this and the camera snobs say it is one of if not thee best. Performance and Sound: has a flagship processor so it is fast, not much more to say without splitting hairs that it does not have the 855+. It sounds good as well with stereo separation. I don’t like the lack of headphone jack but this is the current trend. Battery life: I got rid of the regular pixel 4 mostly because of its battery life with light use seemed to go down quickly. I can’t remember the last time I had battery anxiety and with the pixel 4 unfortunately I did. Not so with the xl, which for me last a day and a half. With a smartphone, I should be able to be away from a charger for a full day and feel like my phone won’t die on me. I think reviewers are lumping pixel 4 battery life with the xl model they are nothing alike. Value: I find flagships too pricey overall and I will always wait for sales which can come quickly for plenty of devices. I paid $499 for the g8 less than 6 months after release, and paid $599 for the regular 4 a month after release and then paid $749 for the xl. $600 is my threshold but I was able to rationalize it because it came with a google nest home hub free, which I will re-gift to someone. The issue I have though is with the price is the small base storage and lack of accessories in the box.. It does not include headphones, or even adapter since there is no headphone jack. Plenty of phones come with a screen protector applied, and a case in the box. Disappointing. Competition: there are plenty of good to great phones out there, and deciding on one is of course personal preference. I didn’t choose any of the oneplus phones because they don’t offer wireless charging which I like. Samsung is out for me as well because seem to be doing their own thing with one UI. ZTE has a nice phone at a good price that I did consider but I they have a slow upgrade path. I went with the pixel line because of its compatibility with all things android, has all the main features I value in a smart phone and as far as I know is the only brand that the native voicemail allows transcription on my carrier without an extra purchase. The lg line is right up there as well, but they lack the quick updates, and native voicemail does not work on my carrier. Last generation pixels do offer better value minus some features like no 90 hz and slow wireless charging. Final thoughts: When you compare the pixel 4 vs the G8 I was depressed because the pixel 4 just does not measure up and it felt like a step back. WIth the XL model I don’t feel that way, which is odd because the xl adds a larger battery, higher resolution. I think this mostly goes to that the pixel 4 is probably too small for me and while the xl is on the big size I can easily move throughout the web and not feel cramped when doing it. I feel that the xl measures up to the G8 even with the price difference. The xl does not have as many ways to do the same thing as the g8 (unlocking your phone, listening to music) but it has 90 hz screen, better camera, better ui, original design and for me native voicemail with transcription. I do like the G8 size better but using the xl does not make me jealous that my wife now has the G8.
It's not the greatest of the Android flagships, but it's a good phone. I preordered the Pixel 4 XL and recently got my $100 Google Store credit, only for it to drop $200 for Black Friday, lol. I could have waited a bit longer but my Nexus 6P went into an infinite boot loop a couple months ago after nearly 4 years, so I waited and got the Pixel 4 XL. As others have said, it doesn't have the brightest screen, but I find it sufficient. The 90 Hz refresh isn't on all of the time by default unless you enable it in the developer options, which I did. I noticed that some reviewers (in general) were disappointed with the battery life, but it lasts me the whole day with my level of usage. I bought a pair of Seneo wireless chargers, 6' USB-C cables, and adapters--one for the home and another for the office, also bought the iOttie wireless charger for the car. Needless to say, I'm rarely below 80% battery. So far, the radar sensor is just a gimmick for actually directing the phone to perform actions since it's a bit sluggish even for skipping through songs or YouTube clips. But I do appreciate the fact that it lowers the volume of my alarm when my hand reaches over it when I go to snooze it! The camera quality is fantastic for photos, and it's decent for video, the stabilization is great. The face unlock is very fast, and yes, it can unlock with your eyes closed, and who knows when that'll be fixed. I have a twin brother, and his face is similar enough to mine (not identical) that even he could unlock my phone... Which brings me to my next point: I really dislike the fact that there is no fingerprint reader. It's annoying that most apps don't acknowledge facial recognition for app logins yet, so I have to resort to typing in the pin or password. All in all, if you love stock Android and are due for an upgrade like I was, then this is a very good phone! To be honest, I have been pleasantly surprised at how stable Android 10 has been so far.
I purchased a Google Pixel 3 on March 11, 2019. Within the first 3 months I noticed freezing when the phone would get hot, mostly when plugged in charging. As time went on, the problem got worse. at the 7 month mark, I reached out to Google support and they advised that I would need to take my device to a repair center (ubreakIfix) and pay for any necessary repairs out of pocket. This was devastating, as I had a OnePlus 1 device for 4-5 years prior to upgrading to the Pixel 3. Of course, the OnePlus 1 was a $299 phone from an unknown company at the time and it was extremely reliable, still to this day working without issue. I declined to spend more money on the Pixel 3, but with it being such a great device (when it worked), I decided to purchase a Pixel 4, although I felt wronged by Google's unwillingness to help with a device I purchased just 7 months prior. Now I've got my Pixel 4 and I'm thrilled to have a phone that won't just freeze in the worst situations, like the Pixel 3 did. The 2nd night, or so, that I had the phone, I went to a family event incredibly excited to try out the camera on this new phone and record some memories. When I arrived, I tried to open my camera and the app crashed. I tried again... crash. I uninstalled and reinstalled and the app was still crashing. Installed security updated, reinstalled camera--still crashing. So, here I am at a family event trying my hardest to fix the camera on my phone. Upon 2nd follow up with Google, I asked that my case be referred to a supervisor. The representative advised that a supervisor would be in touch within 48 hours. No one has proactively followed up with me. Now I'm here, having spent over $1200 on cell phones in 8 months, and neither phone is fully functional. I feel wronged with Google's unwillingness to right the 7-month old freezing issue at their cost, while I feel incredibly disappointed that the 2nd device came with issues right out of the box. So incredibly disenchanted with Google.
Negatives: The USB-C charge port gradually started failing. Then it refused to charge at all via power devliery (thats what the official ac adapter it comes with uses to charge quickly). So, I plugged it into a regular usb port and it would charge from there. Then a few days later it wouldnt charge and I smelled a burning smell coming from the usbc port. It was connected to a regular usb port, which had no problem charging any of my other devices perfectly and reliably and it was an anker product not some weird chinese deal. From that point on I havent been able to charge the phone. I contacted google for warranty replacement, they requested pictures of front and back of phone. Since I had dropped the phone before there was a ding near the top of the phone (was TOTALLY unrelated to the charging issues). Google support said that since there appeared to be a tiny crack, not just a ding, that it was no longer covered under warranty and that I was SOL. I bought this phone along with the pixelbook, whose trackpad failed within a month of purchase (see that review). I have tons of gadgets and I dont remember having ANY hardware failures ever! DO NOT BUY GOOGLE HARDWARE the quality control is awful and they have silly excuses ready to get out of warranty replacement. (again see my pixelbook review). I also got the pixelbuds, another crappy product. (Exception: Google Wifi was actually a great product, best router ever- go figure.) So after two months I have a really expensive brick that cannot be charged. Other issues I had: From day one I was never able to easily get multiple large files off the device, not sure if that is a software or hardware issue. It would fail during the process of copying files to any type of usb c drive or memory card reader (tried several). So getting large video files off the device was a painstaking process of copying a few at a time, waiting for those to complete, then copying a few more. I even tried copying using a chormebook connected to phone via usb c and that copying process would also sometimes fail. Since google refuses to include micro sd cards, that option for file transfer is also gone. Battery life was about standard for current phones, definitely wouldnt leave the house without a charger. (On the other hand, the keyone black edition Im using now I dont even think about bringing a charger, even I have trouble running that battery all the way down in a day of heavy usage). When used with a daydream headset to watch videos, after about an hour or two the phone would get too hot and I would be requested by daydream notifications to stop using vr mode while the phone cools down. So as a video watching device with daydream, the product fails.(Eagerly awaiting the Oculus Go) The navigation buttons use unnecessary screen real estate with no official option to hide or turn off or replace with gestures, although I read there is a work around, but I didnt want any issues so I didnt use the workaround. Huawei and Samsung phones don't waste screen space with unneeded onscreen buttons. Positives: The phone works with Project FI. That is the main reason I got the phone. Project Fi is fantastic, especially for travelers. Fortunately, I can stay on the project Fi plan and keep using data only sims in reliable phones even with a dead pixel 2 XL brick. (Although I dont seem to be able to forward calls to non U.S. numbers, which is a bummer when traveling, especially when the phone itself is broken) Super smooth performance and stock google, best camera ever, all apps work really well on it. Killer display
So I'll pretense this with the fact that I probably would have given this phone a solid 3.5-4 star rating out of the gate, but I toughed it out and I'm glad I did. The battery was draining pretty quickly for the cost that that was really doing it in for me; no other features mattered if I couldn't get through the day to use them. But I gave the phone a chance and I'm really glad that I did. This is the best android phone I've had. Prior to this phone I was bouncing back and forth between the Samsung Galaxy S8+ and the iPhone X because I loved the iPhone's size camera but I so longed for android's OS which took heavy launcher modification on the Galaxy S8+. In comes the Pixel 4XL, which gave me the stock android I'd missed so dearly since my old Nexus 6. After charging through a couple of battery cycles, the battery is usually sitting at 50% at the end of the day, so for me, the phone usually lasts about 1.5 days solid, no questions. Battery is never a problem. Its unfortunate that this phone caught so much flack for battery drain because in my own tests, idk if they did tweaks with updates or if the battery needed to be exercised, but I never have ANY issues anymore with it after charging it up and draining it the first couple of times. Now it lasts all day. The camera is unreal. Although people will be frustrated that it doesn't have two cameras on front and 3 cameras on back (the wide angle cameras), the front camera is already has a very wide FOV, much wider than the iPhone X, which made it an instant upgrade for me, not to mention the quality was much better. The rear cameras are incredibly crisp, and exactly what I enjoy, which is true color. I'm not a fan of Samsung's camera software which tends to over saturate photos natively, so the Pixels camera is provides photos that are just how you see them which is how I like them. The night site works incredibly well which I've tested extensively inside, outside, on the move, and stationary. The video I can't speak to because I haven't tested. The face unlock is absurdly fast almost to a fault, and it does work at angles which the iPhone does not. It is, although, quite annoying that other apps don't work with it yet. I'm hoping that changes soon. I've tried my hand at a lot of different manufacturers over the years in HTC, Samsung, Google, Apple, Motorola, and LG, and so far the Pixel 4 XL has won me over as my favorite to date.
Received 4 days after order, no discernible wear anywhere on phone. The Amazon receipt in box said "Condition: New" even though sold as renewed. Well wrapped in Amazon packing envelope, only a generic 'Smart Phone' box, but constructed from heavy/thick cardboard. Phone not secured inside box, could be rattled around but the protective plastic on screen and sides showed no wear. Included inside box: SIM tool, fast charger w/USB-C cable (5v-3a, 9v-2a), Amazon "Certified Refurbished" Warranty Card, Amazon shipping doc. No manual, no quick start card, no instructions what-so-ever. No ear buds, supposedly new Pixels have these, this did not. Phone came uncharged. Phone charges by computer connection, wireless on Qi base, or connected to charger. Powered on and it led user through set-up including (if replacing another phone) SIM card swap and, with use of a cable (and adapters) between old and new phones, complete transfer of all user data from the old phone. Connected to Verizon wireless immediately without prompting. That was impressive to me. This will replace my Samsung Galaxy S7 running Android Oreo; the Pixel 3 immediately updated itself to Android 10 over WiFi even before I did the SIM swap. No relying on Verizon for system updates! (That's a good thing.) After 24-hours I'm not used to it yet, some things that were stupid simple on the S7 require looking them up in the (non-existent!) manual; things like screen shots, muting the ring, switching to vibrate, connecting to computer for down/up loads. I don't care for the always on Google search/assistant at the bottom of all screens, but I guess that's the price from not having a bunch of carrier foistware on the phone that can't be removed. Very fast and responsive. Maybe it's a boomer thing, but my biggest complaint to directed to Google: there's no manual and no good books in the Amazon store. There apparently is lots of great things hidden in this phone, but limited ways to find out. Yes, there's 'help' on the phone and a webpage (not PDF) on support.google.com/pixel - but I want to know all the ins and outs and prefer not to have to watch a dozen YouTube videos or paw through reviews. Thankfully some younger friends showed me the answers to the questions above. I note the phone was not completely wiped and re-loaded; there were folders off the Android root that were definitely not mine and not Android's. These referenced DVDs and CDs that I never had. All those left-over folders, over 200 of them counting sub-folders, were empty. Maybe that's just how an Android reset works, I dunno. This is/was the only sign the phone was ever held by different hands than mine.
Going to compare this to Google's other phone, the Nexus 6P since it's been my daily driver before owning this phone* and describe the Pixel 2 from that perspective Decided to switch over since I miss owning a 5inch phone and the battery life on the 6P is not as good as it used to be. First thing I like to say is that there is no night-and-day difference between these two phones. The Pixel 2 has better functionality in most cases, but the Nexus 6P still hold up really well as is not outdated whatsoever. Last week, the 6P had its Android Oreo over-the-air software update. Well read on if you're on the fence. *Skipped out on Pixel 1 since it didn't have front facing speakers --Battery Life Pixel 2 wins this hands down, even better than the 6P when I got it out of the box at launch. Can last up to 1.5 to 2 days if you're conservative. Example: Typical 8 hour work day +1 hour commute (half hour to and from work) + 30min lunch break During commute non stop music. 80% volume Lunch 20-25mins on Youtube 15min breaks: some light mobile gaming, Two 2-3 minute phone calls Check e-mail text and notifications throughout the day Doing all of this. Starting from 100%, dropped down to 48% by the end of the day Super fast charging with included charger. Very similar to the Moto X Pure, but the batter life is way longer. Takes about an hour and a half to fully charge your phone from 10% --Camera Better stabilization/auto focus The auto focus on the 6P is horrible, even if you tap on the screen it will not focus accurately. On the Pixel 2 it auto focuses on an object for you without having to touch the screen and does a decent job at it too. 6P does a better job at capturing true real life colors especially in scenery. Pixel 2 makes everything more vibrant and seems like it auto photo-shops everything (which can be a good or bad thing depending on your preference). Pixel 2 has way better front facing camera. Excellent for selfies as it auto blurs the background and do automatic lighting touch ups on your face. Video works way better as there's less camera shake when playing back Did a blind camera test with phones I have available**, borrowed from friends/family and the Pixel 2 had better quality picture hands down. **Nexus 6p, iphone7, Galaxy 7 Edge, Note 4, Moto x pure, Amazon Fire Phone. Note that I don't have access to all high end phones such as iphone X, Note 8, HTC U11, LGV30 along others. --Finger Print Sensor Both very similar. Didn't notice a difference. Was able to detect 100% of the time with dry/clean fingers --Visual aesthetic, build quality Don't know about some people, but I love the camera visor hump on the 6P. Makes it look very futuristic and stands out from other phones. The Pixel 2 on the other hand, looks very generic and plain. The Pixel 2 does not have a streamline look like iphone x or Galaxy edge series as the screen not edge-to-edge. It has large bezels on the top and bottom which i don't really mind since I'm not accustomed to bezel-less screens, but i can see how some people are if they're used to it. Having bezels does have it's advantages as it's great for mobile games where you have to hold your phone horizontally Pixel 2 is also very lightweight. Even lighter than the Nexus 5 and feels very fragile. This is the only phone i bought a case for a week after purchase. Pixel 2 is dust and water resistant. Great for traveling, if you're an extrovert, or an adventurer with no arrows to the knee I don't like the side buttons. For the 6P the power button has this cross hatch metal texture design to it making it easily distinguishable from the volume rocker. For the Pixel 2, all the buttons feels the same, so it takes some time to get a feel for it Personal preference, but i like the 5inch display rather than the 6inch (thus one of my main reason for switching). 6inch is better for viewing cinematic movies/videos, but I already own a laptop and tablet and those tend to do a better job. I find a 5inch phone more portable and less finger travel when using --UI Android Oreo is very smooth. You will not notice a difference from the 6P with Android Oreo unless you compare them side by side. Pixel 2 is slightly faster, but only by milliseconds. Most of it probably have to do with finger travel from larger screen --Front facing speakers At first i assumed it would be muffled compared to the 6P due to the water and dust resistance, but it's surprisingly better than the 6P at higher volumes. At around 80% + volume there's much less distortion on the Pixel 2. Not to say that the 6P is bad, but once you hear the sound quality at near max volume from the Pixel 2 it's hard to go back. No headphone jack on the Pixel 2. So you have to resort to bluetooth for personalized music. This can be troublesome if you are an audiophile especially if you already own a expensive wired headset But if you are a true audiophile, and can afford it, i would get a dedicated mp3 player. Namely the Sony Walkmen brand It does come with a USB-C to 3.5mm cable in box -Software update New android software first on Pixel 2 for 3 years instead of 2. 6P still have updates as mentioned before it updated to Andriod 8.0 last week I also own the Nexus 5 (phone released in 2013) and it still receives security updates from Google, but it stopped getting major software updates (stopped at Android 6.0.1) probably due to hardware limitations. Pixel 2 like other Google phones has no bloatware like ones you see on Samsung phones as is pure android -Active Edge At first i thought it was a throw away feature, but I find it quite useful overtime In the beginning i just used it to set alarms, but after a while starting using it for the Android Assistant. It's very similar to pressing on the google search bar, but much faster. Note that if your phone is off and you use the squeeze feature,you are automatically prompted to the lock screen. Exception being you have no passcode, you have trusted locations or trusted bluetooth devices active. Trusted faces also work, but it takes a second extra for it to boot up. When the phone is on, it's very intuitive, as it's easier to ask the assistant anything from directions and reminders on the fly. You can also squeeze to silence phone calls instead of pressing the volume rocker if you see a spam or phone number of a person you don't' have to talk to at the moment --Google Lens Google lens is similar to Amazon Firefly (on the Amazon phone that no one uses?). It's better at picking up words, number and text than objects -Always on Display/ "Now Playing" Out of the box, the Pixel 2 has an always on display showing the time/date, and app icon notification. You can go to settings and turn this off if you want to save battery life. If you have it off, you can easily access it by double tapping on the screen. Always on display is great when you're sleeping and as you can glace over to look if you have it on a smartphone stand on the nightstand Pixel 2 has a "Now Playing" feature which auto detects music playing in the background with is great as you don't have to ask google assistant for it or use a 3rd party app like Sound Hound. Song has to play in background for 10-20secs in most cases before it's able to display on your phone depending on how loud, clear and popular the song is. --Transfer Process Easy to transfer data use included adapter. If you own an android phone, all apps will transfer over, you just need to re-enter some passwords if it's not connected directly to your google account. You can also transfer iphone data over but it's only contacts, and photos ----Overall a good upgrade if you like the enhanced features. 6P is still a good phone and is not outdated in terms of software and hardware. If you find the upgraded/new features on the Pixel 2 enticing then it's a good upgrade. If you have any questions, please put in the comments.
First off, I waited until Black Friday to buy the phone because I knew there would be a significant price drop. I will never buy a Pixel phone on day one unless I win the lottery and money becomes no object. I recommend waiting that month to anyone who isn't rich. I upgraded from a Pixel 2 XL and owned a Nexus 6P before that. I enjoy Google's version of Android quite a bit and consider the hardware trade-offs worth it. My wife has a Samsung Galaxy S10 plus and there is no question that it's a more refined phone as far as screen, battery etc, but Samsung's version of Android -- while better than it was a few years ago -- is still bloated and unappealing to me. I consider this phone a worthwhile upgrade to my Pixel 2 XL. The screen is much better, and while it could be brighter it is noticably brighter in sunlight than the 2 XL. The 90 Hz display refresh rate makes for noticably smooth scrolling and is a welcome improvement, I have enabled it all of the time in Developer Options with no big jump in battery usage. The upgrade to 6 GB of RAM is also a welcome upgrade. I know that it's still stingy by flagship standards, but I see no lag in the phone so I'm okay with it. The black phone is indeed, as others have noted, a fingerprint magnet, but my phone always goes in a case anyway. If I didn't use a case I would definitely go with white or orange though. Wireless charging is a nice upgrade from my Pixel 2 XL, and from what I hear about the Pixel 3 much faster than on that phone. The battery life is fairly meh, but I find that even on heavy use days a quick boost during the day gets me through. Since I use Android Auto on my commute and the phone charges while plugged into that that's more than enough to get me through any day. I also have a wireless charger on my desk at work if need be. If I was in a situation where I was unable to charge my phone during the day the battery life on this phone might seem like more of a negative. If you are a heavy user who demands to go all day without charging than this probably isn't the phone for you. One thing I love about this year's design is the relatively flat screen. The curved screen of my 2 XL demanded an expensive Whitestone Dome screen protector to protect it without losing screen sensitivity, as does the curved screen of my wife's Galaxy S10 plus. The flat screen of the 4 XL only needs an inexpensive tempered glass screen protector to work perfectly and protect my investment. And I like the way the phone looks. I love the camera, which is always a strong point with Pixel phones. When I shoot video I use 1080p rather than 4k, so the fact that the phone doesn't support 4k 60 for video doesn't bother me. If video at that resolution and frame rate matter to you than this isn't your phone. I love this phone for still photography, which is a personal hobby, and the addition of the telephoto lens is a big plus. Wish they added a wide angle lens, too. That would have been a big plus. I don't shoot many selfies, but I know some users are bummed about the removal of the wide angle selfie camera from the Pixel 3. If that's important to you then you might want to get a different phone. I really like the face unlock. It has worked well for me. Fast and consistent. I don't even think about it much anymore, it just works. On rare occasions that taking my phone out of a pocket doesn't trigger the face unlock then double tapping the screen wakes it up. To sum up, while I don't think this is a perfect phone, I believe that the Google software experience combined with the camera and the bumped up RAM makes it a worthwhile upgrade for those like me who really like Pixel phones. I don't think they're for everybody, but I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this phone. One thing I would definitely recommend now that the phone has returned to post Black Friday full pricing is to wait for the next sale. As stated above, this phone isn't for everyone. No phone is. However, if you pay attention to the strengths and weaknesses and assess your own needs correctly it really is a great phone for the right user. I'm happy to stay in the Google Pixel experience for the next 2 years. When I'm ready to upgrade I'll look at what will probably be the Pixel 6 XL and decide if that phone has earned the next 2 years of my phone usage. Even if it does, I will certainly wait until the phone goes on sale to buy it.
I am what you may call a 'value tech enthusiast'. I love computers, and AV equipment, and phones, and networking... if it required power and has a screen or makes noise then I will probably love it. However, I learned a long time ago that electronics only live for so long before they break, are broken, or outdated, and generally need to be replaced, so I find it very difficult to spend lots of money on things like phones, tvs, speakers, etc. if I am just going to replace it all a few years later anyways. This device is a great value! Especially certified refurbished which brought it down to ~$350. At a year old, it still gets all of the current updates, and it still has one of the best cameras on the market. Nice large display, great battery life for normal non-gaming use (videos, pictures, podcasts, music, email, text, and the occasional phone call). Plus, we moved over to Google Fi service with these phones, and that has also been fantastic! As we are not heavy data users our monthly savings will pay off both phones within 2 years, Plus the data is there if we do need it while on a trip. There are a few things that I don't care for: While large, and with good battery life, it is quite heavy if you use it a lot; consider getting a ring or poper to help support it or lean it upright while using it. The lack of headphone jack is quite annoying. We have not picked up any decent BT headphones, the one I have falls out of my ears constantly, and we have lots and lots of traditional in-ear and over-ear headphones, but can never find the adapter when we need it, and if you use it in your pocket with the adapter, it falls out, or goes off-kilter which stops your music and causes no end of issues. We will get good BT headphones eventually... but man is it annoying. The display is great on-axis, but does color shift quickly if you are off-axis at all. For normal use I do not see this as a real issue, but if you prop it up and watch videos I could see this being super annoying. But other than those 3 things, everything else has been great! No notch, decent speakers, good fingerprint reader, great camera and display, solid battery life... considering all of the pros and cons compared to other devices, I think I still would have chosen this even at a higher price point... and the fact that it isn't at a higher price point is just a bonus! Hope that helps!
This is the most disappointing technology purchase I have made in the last several years. And I haven't even had it up yet as a phone or camera. I am seriously debating taking the restock fee hit and returning it. Why? It has an UTTERLY non-standard interface, both for simple charging, and for audio! It has NO! standard headphones jack, nor any simple organizational method for creating a foldesr and putting your apps in them. At least, I can't see where it does. It also DOES NOT HAVE ANY WRITTEN DOCUMENTATION!! NO MANUAL! And forget even an online manual --- all it has is a bunch of stupid, useless **non-searchable** YouTube UNCAPTIONED "how do you what I think maybe someone somewhere - maybe - might want to do" videos - and can I return to the NO standard audio interface? The charging cable is non-standard. Not only is the cable non-standard, but the WALL PLUG (AC/DC) adapter is NONSTANDARD. I can't even charge from the DC-DC ("cigarette lighter") adapter in my car. You will need to buy a special adapter for each and every outlet you want to use in your house. And a SEPARATE, SPECIAL CABLE for each cable you want to have. God forbid you ever travel with this phone: loose your adapter - OR EVEN YOUR CABLE - and you will not be using your phone again until you can get somewhere to receive special orders. Unlike the Apple non-standard adapters and cables, I've never seen either these "special" cables or their adapters for sale anywhere. And at least I can plug a non-standard Apple cable into a standard USB adapter. There is no jack for headphones. Or external ("hard-patch") output to any sound or other source that I can find. I did mention no manual - right? I can only assume Google thinks we all should carry "blue-tooth bricks" around with us... but who want to carry heavy blue-tooth headphones in their purse all the time?? Not to mention they are expensive and mine, at least, seem to fail routinely. VERY VERY EXPENSIVE!!!!! To get a headphone for home and one for work and one for the car (for the gym) I'll have an added $150+ expense I had not counted on. It may be that the absence of any manual is the worst thing. I was actually offended by the abysmal quality of the YouTube videos. If I'd wanted to be entertained I'd *go* to YouTube --- not try to get specific, simple "how in fact can I --- or even can I?? -- make a folder to separate my Spanish from my English from my personal from my work-related apps?" information. Not to mention simple things like the ... ok, does the only port you do have - the non-standard USB port - output to headphones? And where might I ever get such a thing?? REALLY REALLY REALLY BAD JOB!!!!! NOT something I would have expected from Google. (God forbid I ever actually encounter one of their cars!!!!!! It is NOT reassuring!!) -UPDATE- I found adapters for this weird interface on Amazon - I guess some very new other items use them too - but I stick with my original review. DO NOT travel with this phone - you will not find the cables and chargers. And there is NO MANUAL!!!
A disclaimer: I did not buy the phone here. I bought it used on eBay. So this review is only for the product itself, and had nothing to do with the seller. I had the original Pixel XL and waited for Pixel XL 3. When it finally came out, I was disappointed. No battery life improvement (in fact, it dropped down from Pixel XL 2 according to reviews), and there is that obnoxious notch, even a double notch sometimes. Big turnoffs. So I went ahead to get a used Pixel XL 2 instead. I'm very satisfied. The original Pixel XL was already a great phone. But Pixel XL 2 is about perfect. To me, besides the Pixel line, there is no other option anyway. Reason 1: With Gogle Fi which provides the first and only global network service, the Pixel is really the only global phone. Just travel to another country with an Android phone on Google Fi, and you will understand what I mean by this. Reason 2: I don't want an Apple. And I don't want any third-party renditions of Android either, including Samsung and Huawei, because although they make great hardware, they always manage to damage the true Android experience, both in the user interface and the speed and availability of updates. The only problems I had with the original Pixel XL was that (1) I was running out of storage on the 32 GB; (2) I was desiring a little bit better battery life so it would be able to run through a busy day reliably and comfortably. Better battery life is always desirable. The original Pixel XL had difficulties to last a whole day of heavy use. Even though it is fine 95% of time, just an occasional occurrence of out-of-battery at the end of day is painful enough. As one would be habitually recharging the phone at end of day anyway, at least a whole-day battery life is critically important. Pixel XL 2 solved both problems. In addition, it also has a few nice features that the original Pixel did not have: (1) it has eSIM and can be activated without a physical SIM if you're using Google's Fi network. You can actually insert a physical SIM of an alternative network, but I found that switching back and forth is almost impractical, although possible. Every time when you switch to the physical SIM network, returning back to eSIM would require you to reactivate with Google. Sure reactivation was quite simple, involving just a few clicks, but still it is far from being seamless, and you shouldn't mistake this as a dual-SIM phone. (2) Carriers like Verizon have stopped locking Pixel 2 phones. So you can safely buy a used Verizon Pixel 2 without worrying about being locked on Verizon. The phone will be always activatable on Google Fi, even if you don't have an Fi SIM (see above). (3) The always-on standby screen display is improved, and now not only shows a clock, date, and temperature, but also battery status. There is very little battery draw on the standby screen. To me, this is the perfect phone, and for the first time I believe I may not need a replacement for a few years. In the past, annual replacement, or even midyear replacement had to be made due to lack of satisfaction of the phone performance. Now with Pixel XL 2, if it isn't good for five years, at least I'm expecting three years, which is reasonable. I feel mobile phones as a product evolution have got to a point like what PCs became around 2010. Pixel XL 2 is the proof. Before year 2010, desktop computers were always lacking in some serious aspects, making frequent upgrades necessary. But after year 2010, a well-speced PC could provide a minimum of five years of satisfactory service, and if you're not too picky, perhaps 10 years. Product lifecycle is a big issue. Upgrading a PC or a mobile phone is an extremely costly experience, not just because of the direct costs, but more importantly the time cost. For someone who is choosy on the configurations of PC or phone, switching to a new device is extremely time-consuming. In my own experience, every time when I got a new PC, it would cumulatively cost me a minimum of 20 hours to set everything up to meet my particular requirements. This is mostly system, desktop environment and software configuration. A lot of tweaking is necessary on a new PC. Fortunately, Android has made switching to a new phone a lot easier than switching to a new PC. Most of the switch including app installation, data transfer, and system configuration are made automatic. But not everything, especially when you use many apps that require personalized settings and data configuration. So still, it would take several hours to get everything right. I'm hoping to hold onto the Pixel XL 2 for at least a few years.
I bought this phone to replace my Pixel 3 XL, because its rear camera died 5 days after the warranty ended. (sigh) Initial impressions were poor. The lack of a fingerprint reader sucks, no matter how fast the face scanning is. I could unlock my Pixel 3 with an index finger before it even left my pocket, which is now impossible. It also doesn't always wake up and scan, meaning you have to tap the screen until it scans. The radar gimmick is, well, a gimmick. The only thing it seems to be useful for is swapping between songs, but it's very VERY unreliable even for this. It doesn't consistently detect swipes, so you end up waving your hand at your phone frantically with nothing happening. It's also supposed to wake up the screen when you reach for it. Again, the success rate of this seems to be pretty low, meaning you again have to tap the screen to wake it up. Wouldn't have been a problem with a fingerprint reader. I was ready to get over these deficiencies after the first couple of days, but then the worst thing happened. There are four antenna lines that run horizontally on the sides of the phone, under black paint. They're positioned above the power button and the SIM card tray at the top, with two more at the bottom somewhere. Somehow the entire phone bent inwards and snapped at this point, leaving two cracks on either side and the screen bent slightly inwards. I realize this is likely my fault, and I probably leaned on my pocket or something at some point. But I am 100% sure I did not put an excessive amount of pressure on the phone in the first few days. I've used the Pixel 3XL in the same pockets for the past year, and the Pixel 2 before that. The thing just snapped like nothing. There's no reinforcement in the sides whatsoever. This is a $1000 phone. Why does it feel like a cheap iPhone knockoff? I can't stand iOS, and Samsung are slow on updates. Google needs to step up their game and make a phone that's worth the pricetag.
I've never spent more than $200 on average for a phone. I paid the price with suspect quality, since I mainly bought new Android phones for that price range. Every phone didn't last more than two years, most even started to have issues after a few months (i.e. GPS losing accuracy, charging slot losing contact, etc.) Of course the OS never gets updated so you set yourself up to be hacked on an old, unpatched release. The worst is the camera varying degrees of terrible. So I bought a prepaid iPhone 6 about 1.5 years ago but you know how well iOS runs on old hardware and it will probably not make the jump to the next update. No matter how much I tried to convince myself, I just couldn't buy a new XR, even after I sold my DSLR (b/c I just never bring it with me no matter how good the pictures/lens is/was). However, when Google launched this phone, my last international family trip convinced me that I need to jump at the chance - pictures you have forever, you want the best camera/phone to capture your experiences. Plus, they are offering an insane $250 trade-in for my iPhone and $100 from the Google store credit, plus my company is giving me $100 for BYOD, so the phone is essentially free to me. Ordering was flawless, plus they (I ordered from the Google Store) provided a trade-in kit at the same time. I got it in 2 days after Google announced it. Box was your typical white box, looks almost exactly like a Apple box with color, design, packaging, etc. Phone powered right up. Slight hiccup to get it activated on Sprint in that you can't just move the nano SIM card over, you have to go to a Sprint store and activate a completely new SIM. Also make sure it's a corporate store b/c affiliates don't seem to have these SIMs. I went to Best Buy and they had me running in 20 minutes. Phone is awesome. I got the XL and it's large but for a person who wears glasses it just makes it easier to do things. I know people say it's not fast but I don't game or edit videos so it's plenty fast/responsive. Most importantly, the camera is awesome. Photos are not blurry so far and super clear. I haven't even used any of the special portrait and night options. I'm telling you if a camera can take low light photos that is golden and why I jumped at it. Even with a DSLR it's a challenge trying to take low light photos (do you have the right lens with a large aperture but then you can't have zoom, etc.) It seems pretty fragile so I'm going to get some sort of case, especially since it's plastic and the case is not removable. However, make sure you get a full case and not a case that just clips on the edges. I made the mistake of buying one for my iPhone and sand/dirt got wedged in and ended up scratching the phone itself. The Android OS is quite a bit different than iOS but I'm coping. Can't say it's worst, just different. The best part is the it being a Google phone will get updated for at least 3 years. I have no big input on the exterior design of the outside, really all phones look the same - we have Apple to blame for that. The fingerprint unlock is a huge plus and love it for all my iPads, computers. Very pleased so far (will update if that changes). Since this phone is free to me, I plan to use my $100 Google store credit to buy another Pixel 3a for my wife. She has a 2 year old Huawei Honor 8 that has held up pretty well, aside from every government in the world banning them. Update after 1 month Best phone I've ever had. Best camera I've ever had bar none, better than any Canon/Nikon DSLR I've had, etc. I've take pictures from moving buses, etc. and each pictures looks like a million bucks...the first time. I've used the camera for some professional portrait quality pictures. Battery life is great. I have had some data disconnection problems but not sure if it's a Sprint problem or otherwise but only happened a few times. I'll monitor to see if it is a real issue. I did end up buying a second 3a XL for spouse and she loves it too, still waiting for my google credit though... 6 months update Here is my update on both my wife and my experience after almost 1/2 a year. So we both have Pixel 3a XL's. Overall, they have been awesome. Camera is awesome, no change. For anyone who just wants to point and click, there is no equal for the price (same as all the media articles). Battery life is great, no complaints. Size is great, especially for reading for those of us who need bigger fonts. So some issues. I had an issue that took a long time to resolve where I was not getting notifications of new voicemails left (using Sprint). Long story short after going to Sprint, working online with Google support, etc. the only way to fix it was to add an app called visual voicemail and sprint hub. This is counter intuitive but it took a huge amount of effort and troubleshooting to resolve. My wife, who had Best Buy setup the phone did not have any issue. She does however have data connection lost issues that is resolved by restarting and I have had it also but not as often. Essentially, the phone stops talking to the Internet. I'm going to try to reset the phone to resolve and then will escalate to Google if it doesn't resolve. Overall, still very pleased with the phones.
This phone does as well as my Pixel 2XL did, for half the price. Pros: low cost, incredible camera, Google ecosystem, battery life, headphone jack. Cons: slightly buggy phone app, cheaper materials, not quite waterproof, lack of wireless charging, no earbuds included. I was a bit hesitant to risk upgrading, but I'm so glad that I did. I bought the 3A XL in Purple-ish, and the color is gorgeous. The battery life has been great, surprisingly better than my Pixel 2XL. Please note that I did disable some digital wellbeing features within an hour of initial setup, which has increased the speed and saved some battery. The display is nice, and bringing back the headphone jack was a pleasant surprise (I don't know about you but I was CONSTANTLY losing my 'dongle' when I actually needed it). However, there are a few major features lacking on this model vs the 3XL, primarily lack of wireless charging and waterproofing. Another major difference is the materials are definitely cheaper. It doesn't look or feel as cheaply made as say, the iPhone 5C did. The back simply doesn't have quite the same glow as the 2XL or 3XL. I would definitely recommend getting a screen protector on the device immediately before use, as the glass on the front isn't as durable. That said, it doesn't really look or feel cheap, just not built as premium as other Pixel devices. I could probably write an entire page about how incredible the camera is, but it's something you really just need to experience for yourself. Night Sight blew my mind. I took pictures of my living room in nearly pitch black darkness and a) I was able to see more in the photo than I could with my naked eye in the dark and b) it honestly looked like the time of day the photo was taken was about 4pm with the amount of light in the image. Portrait mode on any Pixel is fantastic. I have been asked if many pictures that I have taken on Pixel phones are professional photographs, and I am really not the best photographer. I do feel the need to mention that the phone app still has some kinks to work out, but I'm confident from my past experience with Google that it won't be long before its fixed. I have noticed that sometimes on calls, the phone has issues with displaying contact names on screen when I switch from one call to another. Luckily, there is an option built into the device's settings to immediately talk with Google support live agents via chat. I did this with ZERO wait time. Super helpful! Considering upgrading from an iPhone? I would recommend ignoring other online reviews that advise you against it and just go for it. (Just remember if you have a newer iPhone, make sure to compare features on your current device such as wireless charging first). My inital experience going from Apple to Google (iPhone to the Pixel 2XL) was seamless. Everything transferred via the cord and adapter given in the box. (Minus my collection of Apple music of course, but that's what Spotify is for!) New to Google? The Google ecosystem works incredibly well as a whole. I have Google smart home products in my home, and use Google photos and Gmail/google calendar/g suite etc. I'm amazed every day by new ways that everything works together. Lastly, THE PRICE! A new release, good quality phone at this low of a cost? It's a GAME CHANGER. This was the deciding factor for me choosing to upgrade, and it's absolutely worth the cost. In fact, a phone with this good of a camera at this cost is basically a steal.
This is my 48- to 72-hour review. I bought this to replace a Moto G4 Play that had served me well but was on its second battery and occasionally locked up on me requiring me to remove the battery to reboot. As I had become a Moto fan thanks to my G4 Play, I was looking at the G7 Play and Power. For a bit more, the G7 looked worth considering, then the Pixel 3a came out for the same price if you take the $100 gift card into account. I read several reviews, and the better camera sold me. I jumped in, taking the Amazon gift card offer over the Best Buy offer. The phone looks good, still fits in my pocket and I can easily use it with one hand. The screen looks sharp and I really like the camera after a day or two of playing a little bit. I still need to learn more about it. I LOVE the call screening feature which I'm not sure is Pixel specific or the operating system. I switched my service over Thursday night but needed a new, smaller SIM card which ATT gave me as I continued service with them. Friday, I was on the phone off and on throughout the day, mostly setting it up, adding my work email and calendar, etc. I also took a walk around my campus with it, testing out the camera on about a dozen photos. By the time I got home from work, the battery was down to 17 percent. 17! I had read that this didn't have a great battery, but that it would get me through the day. 5pm won't cut it. So, what can you decide in one day? I got up this morning, Saturday, and did some surfing, and played some online games. Now, my game playing is limited to word puzzles and backgammon, not graphics-intensive games. The battery, which was charged the night before, was down to 37 percent before noon. I'm now very concerned about using this during an upcoming trip, or relying on it for work or travel. I really like the phone, but this can't continue. I may need to return it. Is anyone else having battery problems like this. On the plus side, the included charger recharges the phone pretty quickly. But I'm not going to have the time, or outlets, to keep charging it while playing tourist.
Leaks and early reviews made people know what was coming and the few details we were missing were a disappointment. Google justifies that a telephoto it's more useful than an ultra wide but when you are joining the big league of flagships you give customers the options that the market offers and in this case I think that the wide angle omission was a big miss. This and the surprise of a smaller battery compared to last year's pixel are the drawbacks that I wanted to get out of the way first. The battery is not great as people expected and on my two day use, I have had around 4 hours of screen on time. I feel like this is making a big favor to goole, and in no way this is a justification, but my smaller battery has made me rethink that probably being on my phone for 4 hours and being stressed about it is probably something I could improve and adjust on my personal time management. Normal phone use with camera use every once in a while is achievable for sure with the regular pixel 4. For me the trade-off of a smaller battery but a more manageable body compared to the XL is worth it. To combat the lack of wide angle, I luckily had a moment wide angle lens I used on my pixel 2 that I did not get rid off when I got my S10e. I can confidently say the convenience of having the lens on the phone is great, but in case of the Samsung lens the quality dropped from the main lens to the wide angle and using the awesome lens from moment doesn't decrease the quality or adds any distortion to the main lens. Having moment announce the support of the Pixel 4 gives me a wide angle and basically convert my two lens to the ideal 3 lens scenario we all wanted. I seriously recommend the products and content Moment has to anyone interested in photography. Now for the good stuff, Pixel 4 shines in what I expected and made me come back for a pixel. I went from Nexus 6p- Samsung s8 and Pixel 2 - Samsung s10 and both times I kept missing my Google phone. If rellying on a camera that will ALWAYS deliver a great photo is something you value, I don't think there is a better option than Pixel. It's more difficult to take a bad photo than it is to take GREAT one. The lack of original quality cloud backup is a bit sour, but you can still back them on a good enough quality, considering most people just like to go back and see their photos on their phones and not for a big print out where amazing quality is required. The price of Google one is also reasonable and gives enough space for original quality backup. Lastly, the screen and 90hz screen are the cherry on top of this cake. If you use your phone, you need to unlock it so having something that makes this process go this smooth because of the early waking up of the phone from the radar to scan for your face it's really wonderful. The 90hz helps on another side of our everyday use equation : scrolling CONSTANTLY. The difference is noticeable and it's something I know I will get used to. As with many other things and features, it's one of the little things techlovers appreciate and other consumers just don't care about. There is no perfect phone but Pixel constantly proved for me that there's no match for their camera and having the best Android experience is what you get. With this year's Pixel 4 you get that plus an awesome clean and finally finger print free construction, a superb pair of speakers that do not make me miss the front firing speakers of the Pixel 2 and some nifty features that scratch my geek technology itch.
When the new Pixel 4 was released I took a look at my two-year-old Pixel 2 and wondered if I really needed to upgrade, given what a great phone it had been, and still is. Giving in to a bit of retail therapy is easy, so I did. It's an expensive business getting a Pixel phone in this country (New Zealand) since it's a buy from Amazon in the US, shipping to the other end of the world, paying GST (our sales tax) converted to NZ dollars added up to $1,550. Was it worth it? Let's take a look. I've owned a lot of android phones and had the Pixel 4 for a few months now and it's performed pretty much flawlessly, both the software and the hardware - as I expected it would. I really like Google's own implementation of their Android O/S - it's clean and just works. There are some UI annoyances that I'll come to later. Other makes (Huawei, Samsung) all seem to be clogged up with unnecessary and buggy extra apps and take years to get Android updates through. I get Google's updates within days of release and I've never had a bad one. In their attempt to regain a handful of pixels from the bottom of the screen, Google have removed the Home and Back on-screen buttons and replaced them with gestures. This has or will probably occur on other makes of phone as Android 10 rolls out. The new gesture needs a swipe from the bottom edge (home) or from either side (back), and I pretty much hate it. If you miss the edge (it's tricky if you have a case with a raised edge) then you end up swiping the app off to somewhere unwanted. If you get a bit close to the edge when you're scrolling within an app, you suddenly go home or back. It doesn't happen to me very often but when it does happen it's infuriating. Hint: When buying a case, look for one with a low profile on the screen side - though that won't protect the screen quite as well. As for other features, I'm not so sure there's a lot to say. The main one is the face recognition lock which I've turned on and also the "Keep phone unlocked while I'm looking at it" option. I like that one, it saves the phone going black when I'm taking my time reading, or something. It's also nice to just pick up the phone and look at it, it's so natural, quick and easy. People seem unduly worried about the security of this feature, I'm not sure why except maybe for the unlock while you're asleep. If someone is in a position to do that, then they are also in a position to do many awful things to me and additionally, the banking and other vulnerable stuff on my phone has a further level of security. The screen is up to par, and the glass is nice not picking up oily finger goop like all my others did after a while. I've given up on screen protectors, my phones are pretty safe being mostly in my pocket, and I like the feel of the screen. Feels like a solid build to me without being too heavy, though it's heavier than the Pixel 2 and has quite a bit more screen, mostly in the length. People seem to rave about the camera and I agree it's good, but so was the Pixel 2 so the step up doesn't seem huge to me - but then I'm no camera buff. The Pixel 2 was a bit better at close-ups which I do a lot of when working with electronics. The Pixel 4 can be zoomed up to 8x but can't focus closer than about 120mm which limits its use as a macro camera. The P2 was good down to about 60mm. (4.7" and 2.4") Sound is surprisingly good watching a video. There's nothing at the bass end but that's to be expected in such a small body. The volume is good and the sound spread is wide though perhaps a bit overdone. I'm not in a cathedral. I regularly use speakerphone and also Sennheiser Bluetooth headphones, and they perform very well on both phone calls and music. Bluetooth, WiFi, and 4G connectivity all seem solid. Battery life is marginal, my only real complaint about the hardware. An overnight charge to 100% would all be gone by 7pm if I wasn't quite careful. To counter this I bought a charger for the car so I can give it a commute-time top-up and things are better now. Wireless charging is cool and Qi chargers all seem to work fine. Makes charging in the car a breeze with a charger built into the holder. Wireless charging is not fast, about 0.9 amps, compared to a fast charger which charges at nearly 3 amps (~1 hr full charge time) but it turns the phone into a hotplate and could affect battery life. I recently bought a Samsung Galaxy Active 2 Smartwatch (SM-R810) and paired it up easily with the Pixel via Bluetooth, but with a fair amount of convoluted messing about with the Samsung apps got it all working reasonably well though it's a bit crazy and somewhat buggy. I sure wish Samsung would produce practical software like Google does. I did a review on the watch too. So was it worth it? Probably not, but mostly because my old Pixel 2 was such a nice reliable workhorse that has never slowed down even with 150 or so apps. Every other phone I ever owned has slowly ground to a standstill. I use quite a lot of apps. Am I glad I bought it? For sure, but I just can't part with the Pixel 2 so now that one's a spare.
I've had android and iPhone before. There are pro/con's for both but I like Android better. That being said, this phone perfectly exemplifies what Android is supposed to be. Design: I miss the headphone jack. i use corded headphones regularly. That being said, I rarely use the headphone jack and charge the phone at the same time so using the USB-C to 3.5 mm audio adapter hasn't been an issue. An added plus of using the adapter is I no longer have to deal with certain headphone plugs not fitting due to my case not providing a big enough opening. I love that the speakers both face the front.I had adapted a way of holding other phones in a way so that my hand cupped the sound and directed it to my face. No longer needed. Otherwise, the phone is pretty standard as far as premium phones look. You'll likely use a case anyway this isn't really an issue. Performance: There is absolutely no lag in this phone. As soon as you touch a button or spot on the screen, its already where you need to be before the entire weight of your finger crashes down. You can snap photos one after the other and not face any dreaded processing hold screen. OK Google detection is much improved. Not sure if this is due to hardware or software, but I no longer have issues waking my phone up to tell it to create a reminder or something like that. Also, I haven't noticed it responding to others saying OK Google like my previous phone did, but I wasn't on Oreo yet so that could also be why. (but I can't rule out better microphone hardware that might be able to provide better signal to noise ratio) Finger print sensor is lightning fast. Haven't had too many issues with my fingerprint not reading although I did load the same finger twice to get better results. Battery life: With my previous Nexus 5x, if I used the phone (basic stuff like reading news, listening to music, and maybe watching a couple youtube videos/using the maps app) I could maybe make it half a day. With the Pixel 2 after a day of light use I still have 50% battery left. I could likely go 2 days of light use or 1 day of heavy (watching videos) use. Display: The display is absolutely beautiful. The new screen allows for individual pixels to be turned on or off which makes the blacks super dark as there's no backlight. I think this is also why the battery life is so awesome. As a plus, the time, date, temperature, and icons of notification types are able to be displayed on the phone at all times. This is awesome as it makes the phone a true nightstand clock replacement and you can even tell if you missed a text without touching your phone. Camera: Don't get me wrong, the camera is the best I've seen on a phone. But comparing to the Nexus 5x, you don't notice THAT much of a difference.However, with the performance, you can actually take pictures and not have the phone crash on you. Overall, I've been hearing talk of how the pixel 2 still isn't fully complete as in they're missing features, but I can't imagine how necessary they are. Definitely the best phone I've owned/played around with.
I've been using the Pixel 2 XL Unlocked (from Project Fi) for a couple days shy of 6 months and it's probably been the best phone I've ever owned. I never bought a case for it as they were too expensive and simply threw it into the middle slot in my clutch everyday. I just cleaned the screen and there zero blemishes, with some very minor scratches on one edge of the rear glass. Waterproofing is excellent (I've done quite a bit of photography during thunderstorms) as is the camera for virtually anything i'd need to shoot not requiring a DSLR. The operating system has been updated three times to Android P Beta 3 and all versions have simply flown. I've tried most of the features excepting some of the less-secure smart unlock features. My only complaint is that the screen reader is all but worthless unless you're legit blind and have used multiple Android phones previously. Compared to the iPhone's screen reader, which i've used every night for the past five years to turn fanfics into audiobooks, Android's screen reader may as well be bloatware. Speaking of bloatware, there isn't any and nearly every app i've ever installed has run smooth as butter. I have tried installing 3rd party launchers and at least the Windows Phone launcher works well for what it is, though i can't imagine a need for them. Just now my phone rang and it recognized it as a suspected spam caller and didn't alert me. Battery life is really quite excellent if you follow the battery-saving steps recommended in the settings. Today i shot and then edited about 10 photos in Snapseed and uploaded them and had only lost about 8% power when I was done. Under normal/standby usage i usually get four-five days. Under heavy usage, about three. The always-on screen is terrific and well-designed to be read in any light. The Now Playing feature that Google used to advertise this phone works maybe 5% of the time? The concept needs work and the offline micro-database powering it is too small to be useful for any style of music. The biometric sensors are terrific and if you take your phone with you everywhere you'll never have to "start a workout" and still have excellent statistics (I recommend exporting them to Exist.io as the Google Fit app is designed for the lowest common denominator with little functionality). I have no use for VR and haven't used any of those features, but there are so many crammed in that this phone would be an excellent choice if you needed to. Occasionally for some reason i manage to accidentally switch on speakerphone and i'm not sure why but i doubt it's a real bug. 100% recommended. I can't imagine what Google would have to do to top this.
So I was lucky enough to use both phones for a while and here are my thoughts : Display: The thing you use the most really on any phone now is the screen, the note 10 has an amazing screen & I never expected any phone to have better screen to look at. Well, the Google Pixel did just that! I dunno if it's the cleaner software or what, but the Pixel's screen does feel a little nicer. Camera: While the Pixel should have been the clear winner here, it really isn't! Yes, the front selfie camera, at night or indoor is definitely better, but honestly it feels worse than last year's Pixel 3 for some reason. The selfies feel a little fake, and the camera angles are weird. The back camera however isn't much better than the Note, in fact I find myself missing the wide angle camera that I had on my Note, a lot! On a side note, my wife's iPhone 11 pro back camera also feels a little better than the Pixel's, which is also unexpected Half star off really, not for a bad camera, but for the disappointment, it's just not as good as expected. Software: No need to bother comparing here, the Google software is much better, cleaner, smoother & more productive than that of Samsung, hands down the Pixel OS wins here. Battery: Not that much of a difference, the Note 10 does tend to last longer. Both aren't that great though but the Note will give you, may be, a couple more extra hours, which is appreciated really! Design: The Note 10 is beautiful! Very slick, all screen display, nice curvy sides, while the pixel does look good overall, specially the back, but the front design is ugly, and I don't care if they have a radar on the front, it really doesn't seem to be that much more functional and I would rather have the fingerprint scanner with an all edge to edge display, thinner phone, than the secure face ID with a big top hinge. Another half star off for a lazy design. The face ID itself is worth mentioning, it's surprisingly accurate and fast, but so many apps don't support it yet and having to enter passwords for banks & stuff seems like something that we had left behind, but with the lack of fingerprint and the lack of face id support on so many Android app, there really are no other options, try not to forget those passwords, you'll be in trouble! Overall, I think I'll be keeping my Pixel for a little while longer but I can't say I'm fully happy with it really.
So I decided to buy Pixel 4 since I was being really disappointed with the direction that Samsung was going towards in terms of hardware and software. Here are my impressions after some time with it when comparing it with my Galaxy S9+ : Hardware features: I don't really care for headphone jack but it is inexcusable that Google removed fingerprint sensor. Using it is much more convenient than face unlock and fingerprint sensor is much more reliable in all light conditions. I really miss it when going from S9+ to Pixel 4. Bring it back, Google. Display: the display quality on my Galaxy S9+ is better - it is more uniform and feels like it is more color accurate. Especially when looking at it at an angle or turning the phone. On the other hand I really dislike curves on the sides of Galaxy display and I like that Google went with flat display. I also dislike that Samsung is putting random notches and holes into their display on their latest models and I like how Google has finally abandoned this trend and hopefully future Pixel devices also won't have any notches or holes. Battery life: the battery life on Pixel 4 XL is better compared to Galaxy S9+. Not really surprising since Samsung puts a lot of their own services running in background. However, having more battery capacity would be even better since Pixel 4 XL lasts less on single charge than any iPhone 11 model or some Android phones with higher battery capacity. Software: Google's software experience is great and I like it much more than Samsung and its awful One UI. No huge wasted space, no excessively rounded corners, working spam call protection, better messenger, no bloatware, no redundant apps. The only issue with Google software is they put the search bar on home screen which I do not want to use and you cannot remove it unless you will use different launcher. Sound quality: the sound quality on Samsung Galaxy S9+ is better. It is more neutral, with less bass emphasis. Photo quality: it is better on Pixel 4 in all modes. Video quality: Galaxy S9+ takes better video quality and it can record 4k 60fps videos, Pixel 4 cannot do that. All in all Pixel 4 XL is a good phone for the current sale price but it should have been much better considering it is a flagship device and considering that whole idea of Android and their devices is to give users more choice. Hopefully Google will bring fingerprint sensor back in future devices, give more video taking options and give larger battery capacity (even cheapest iPhone 11 is beating Pixel 4 XL in terms of battery use).
I spent a few weeks researching phones and ended up going for this one. Did the new release and pre-order deal inform that decision? Certainly. But that wasn't the only factor, and after 2 days, I have no buyer's remorse (yet). The contents of the box are basic - you get a charging cable and a USB port to allow the transfer of data from your old phone, and that's it. No headphones, no dongle, no USB-C to USB cable. The phone is simple, elegant, and light. And that last is not insignificant. Among flagship phones, it's one of the smallest and lightest around, and it fits very neatly in my pocket with minimal bulk. In fact, it's been some time since I had a phone I could comfortably leave in the pocket of my pants while sitting down. The interface is smooth and fast, and while there may be slightly better screens on the more expensive flagship models, it's plenty sharp enough for me. Motion sense it is a bit of a gimmick at this stage - not many app use it yet and it isn't 100% reliable, but it's nice to be able to vaguely waft at my alarm in the morning to snooze it. It just takes less mental energy at a time when my mental energy reserves are at their lowest. It's been reliable enough so far. Another cool new feature is live caption - instant subtitles on any media the phone is playing. I tested this while watching a Thursday Night Football NFL game, and it worked well enough. The feed was a little slow and occassionally struggled with names (Case Keenum was regularly referred to as case kingdom and Stefon Diggs confused it no end, but it got most of the other names right). I often stream football with the volume off and will make good use of this feature. The main event, though, is the camera, and it doesn't disappoint. Yes, there's no wide angle lens, but the basic camera is fairly wide already. If you want full field-of-view that distorts the edges and the verticals, then maybe an iPhone11 is better, but early tests seem to vindicate Pixel's decision to go for 'telephoto' (2x zoom) instead - the zoom is excellent and the portrait mode blows most of the competition out of the water. Images are sharp, colors are represented well and the software allows you to achieve a finer finish than anyone should really expect from the sort of lens and sensor a phone can carry. The photos added to this review show night sight, 8x zoom on the staute of liberty, and a couple of pictures using portrait mode (my cat, and a macro style photo which might be my favouite so far) Battery life is generally listed as the biggest negative of the Pixel 4, but it's been fine for me. I did reduce the frame refresh rate to 60Hz and put it on dark mode (Makes no real difference to me anyway). With those changes, I was able to do 1 hour web surfing, stream an hour of video, spend 1 hour reading an e-book, plus half and hour taking photos, and half an hour listening to music over bluetooth, and at the end of the day I still had 28% battery left. All around, fairly comfortable. If you're not a high-intensity user and you're happy with dark mode and a normal refresh rate, battery shouldn't be a deal breaker. Overall, I wanted a small, light phone with an excellent camera. Now, I have one.
I purchased a used version of the pixel 2 after having some bad luck with a refurbished original pixel. I can say that it was a great decision in that I saved hundreds of dollars and got a unit in excellent condition. The pixel 2 is a great smartphone and made numerous improvements over the original pixel. The cameras are my favorite part of this phone, they take amazing photos and I can't believe how professional the photos look when implementing portrait mode. They look like something straight out of a magazine. Low light environments still result in some graininess but the low light feature does help. Processing performance is impressive, I rarely see the system chug and I can carry out plenty of multitasking. The front facing speakers don't offer the cleanest sound but as someone who used to accidentally cover the speaker on the bottom of the original pixel I am a huge fan of the new speaker locations. The display is fine and I like the options to choose how much color saturation you desire. Active edge is a cool feature but I don't find myself using it very often. It requires a good deal of force to activate and it often requires squeezes in multiple places to finally trigger the assistant. One of my gripes with this phone is that it is no longer compatible with Anyview Cast on my Hisense smart TV so I'll probably need to purchase a chromecast in the future if I want to do things such as screen mirroring to my 4k tv. I've read that it also no longer supports Miracast. The battery life is great and I always have plenty of battery left over at the end of the day with moderate usage. The fingerprint reader is super fast and located on the back of the device. The fingerprint is located in a place the feels very natural for my pointer finger to rest on. This is a great phone with a great camera and I would recommend it to anyone looking to replace their original pixel or older android smartphones.
This review is more about my experience of buying a renewed phone, rather than the phone itself. I purchased this phone to replace my pixel, and the *only* reason I was replacing that was because of the rapid battery drain. I didn't want to spend the money on a new pixel 4 because I'm not impressed with the battery reviews on it. My choices were to replace my pixel battery ($100) or buy a renewed phone for a couple of hundred more than I would have spent to replace the pixel battery. I started watching these renewed pixel 3xls to see how the pricing was going. I didn't want to spend more than $400, so I kept waiting and waiting. Then a 128gb one came up for $367, which I thought was a really good price. I ordered it on a Tuesday, it said it would be here the following Monday, but it arrived during the day on Friday. Yeah! The packaging was really good, the phone was secure. The phone was in a bag in the box, and in the box was also a charger and cable. The phone was not charged, but no biggie. It charged really fast. The one thing I noticed after inspection, was two scratches in the top third of the phone. I was so bummed! Now I knew why the phone was so much less. However, you can only see the scratches at a certain angle and when the screen is off. I can't feel them when running my finger over. So, another decision: can I live with the scratch that is only visible under certain angles, and angles that I would be unlikely to ever hold my phone at and when the screen is off, or do I send it back? I decided to charge it up, install my stuff and see how it goes. Well, the scratches aren't a big deal at all. There is no interference with my phone interaction/useability. It's a trade off, but I think a worthwhile trade off - this is the only physical flaw on the phone. I plan to keep this one until around pixel 6 or so, so again, I think it's worth it. I'm very happy I got a really good deal, and other than the scratches, I feel like the phone is brand new.
So I got the Panda version (white and black) and not from Amazon. I started off with the kinda blue Pixel 2 but the 5" screen was driving me crazy. The 6" screen is perfect. To first cover on complaints about the screen, I got mine a few weeks ago so it's after all the updates that Google did to fix the complaints that was happening with the screen. Personally, I think it's gorgeous and it's one of the many reasons I love this phone. DISPLAY - The 18:9 aspect ratio is amazing. Simple as that. It makes the screen so much bigger without having such a large phone. It's still a rather large phone but it's a lot easier to handle because it's not compensating for the large bezels. The rounded corners add such a nice flair. Everything just looks so clean. After the update, Google added multiple color choices including Natural (all colors are kind of darker but more true to life), Boosted (again, pretty dark but a little bit more vibrant) and Saturated (if you like Samsung displays, you'll love this) PERFORMANCE - This thing screams. A lot of phones are coming out with 6 gigs of RAM, 8 gigs of RAM. This destroys the competition with only 4 gigs of RAM. Even when I owned the smaller version, I haven't found a single app or game that chokes it up. It multitasks like a boss and with the latest version of Android every time it hits, you can't ask for much more UPDATES - I figured I would cover this now because of how I ended the last bit. This is a straight from Google phone so you're guaranteed the latest updates for 2 years with security updates for 3 years. It's nice having instant access to the latest update and knowing you're going to continue to get them immediately on release for 2 years. I've owned a few Motorola phones and some of them I've had to wait for up to 10 months before I got the latest. This is instant. I know it's something Apple fans have enjoyed since the beginning but it's a nice feeling BATTERY LIFE - I haven't personally experienced any god-like battery life from this device. It's matched what I expect out of a smart phone which is let me make it through an entire day with moderate use without dying. Some people are getting a day out of it with like 8-9 hours of on screen time. I haven't had the pleasure of this occurring yet for me. I usually make it with 2 1/2 hours of on screen time and the battery at 25-30% before I head to bed. This is good enough for me though. I used to have to top off the 5" Pixel 2 around noon to make sure it lasted the rest of the day. I haven't used my in car charger since I got the XL CAMERA - They always say to save the best for last. This is an understatement for the camera. All you've heard about the camera, it's not an exaggeration. It lives up to all the hype. Pictures take quickly. A few seconds of processing in the back ground and it looks like pro material. I've taken pictures without looking and been amazed at the clarity and detail every single shot. I haven't done too many videos but they record in 4K with optical and software stabilization. I tested this briefly by just running across a room and the final product made it look like I was gliding across the room. Also, if you're a pixel user, you get unlimited storage at full resolution on Google Photos up until 2020. Which is also pretty nice. I've attached a picture of my cat as an example of how good the photos are In conclusion, this phone is worth every penny. If you don't like the XL, you can go with the standard Pixel 2 and get the same features, performance and camera. Just a smaller screen and smaller battery. This phone is absolutely incredible and lives up if not exceeds every expectation