Note: I am reviewing this phone based on its quality and functionality, and it's full suggested retail price of $750, and not based on price-gouging from these third-party re-sellers. A quick prologue: I had been laying low since buying two Samsung Galaxy S6 Edges in early 2015 (one gold, one white - yes, I loved it that much). I knew that it was the perfect phone for me at that time, and that based on how the cell phone evolution was going on then (early 2015), I knew the S7 Edge would be an iterative succession, and not a big leap forward. So I bought my S6 Edges with the thought in mind that I would have it for at least 2-3 years. My analysis was that Samsung at that point in time had plateaued their curved screen technology and philosophy, and would move on next to foldable screens by 2020. I gave them a couple of buffer years in case they didn't feel like introducing us to such drastic technology too early, as Samsung has a habit of forward thinking, yet holding back a year or two so they can milk the most money out of their current technologies. Fast forward to this year, and I have not been wrong - Samsung has indeed matured and plateaued its curved screen plans, but their foldable screen technology has not been up to speed, so it would be delayed for another year or two (they are still on track for 2020). With the introduction and quick adoption/popularity of HDR technology, they can afford to stay on their curved screen plan for another year or two until they lower the costs of their foldable screen technology down enough for mass production. I loved my S6 Edges, but I got bored of the gold one quickly, and sold it to buy a Rose Gold iPhone 6S last year, while keeping the white S6 Edge. I loved everything about it - mainly the beautiful curved screen design, but even more so, the awesome camera, which was the best for its time, and still holds up today as one of the very best in bright light. If you go through my reviews, 99% of the photos from 2015 on are from my S6 Edge. It is so good I have replaced my travel DSLR with it (I still use my Canon 5D Mark III for my serious projects), and all my Instagram photos are also from my S6 Edge (you can find the link to my IG on my Amazon profile). Sorry for the long intro, but it ties to my review that the camera on the S8 is even better. Do not be fooled by early hands-on articles that the rear camera is the same as the S7 Edge. It is NOT the same. It is a new camera system developed by Sony, and it is a dual-pixel system which takes two photos each time you press the shutter button, and quickly and deftly combines the two to give you an awesome final photo, which contains HDR and selective focus elements/photo modes. It excels in low light conditions, with its f1.7 aperature, and it even exceeds the S7 Edge's camera. It might not compete in fast action with the ridiculous 960 fps Sony camera in its new Xperia X phones, but for everyday use, I feel this is the best phone camera so far. It has electronic image stabilization (EIS), even up to 4K video recording, which is a first for phone cameras. The front (selfie) camera is also vastly improved, but not as good as the 13MP camera of the LG G6. This is a photography geek's review, leading in with the camera, but I know most of you are more concerned with the big beautiful screen, which it is exactly that. The resolution is 2960 x 1440 pixels, or a pixel density of 570 ppi. The technology is Samsung's very own OLED, called sAMOLED. It is the same basic technology that makes the best TV screens in LG's OLED TVs. Samsung's 2017 version is so good, it is apparently the best screen ever. You can read more technical specs from Display Mate: displaymate. com/Galaxy_S8_ShootOut_01.htm (erase the space between the dot com) How Samsung has managed to squeeze all that goodness into a phone this size is quite a technological marvel, and quite a gamble as well. Instead of the 16:9 ratio 95% of the phones out there today have, they have chosen on a 18:5.9 ratio, which just sounds really weird. This is pretty much a 3:1 ratio, which is quite unheard of. Even LG's unique G6 phone has a different 18:9 (or 2:1) ratio. So this is Samsung's way of truly trying to stand out from the crowd for this generation (year). I really don't know why they chose this ratio, as even cinema (movie theatre) ratio is 21:9, so there truly is no video/film format that perfectly fits this screen's ratio. So there will be empty spaces around the videos and movies you watch, but the black bezels will help eliminate that disparity - note that all S8's, regardless of what color scheme, have black front bezels. This phone is actually more narrow than the S6/S6 Edge. The S8 measures 68.1mm wide by 8.1mm thick by 148.9mm tall, and weighs 155 grams, while the S6 Edge is 70.1 x 7 x 142.1 mm, and weighs 132 g. But as you can see it is a tick thicker, and noticeable taller and heavier. So although the S8 has a total footprint that is larger than the S6 Edge, or is actually easier and more comfortable to hold in one hand. For further comparisons, the iPhone 7 is 138.3 x 67.1 x 7.1 mm (138 g), the iPhone 7 Plus is 158.2 x 77.9 x 7.3 mm (188 g), and the LG G6 is 148.9 x 71.9 x 7.9 mm (163 g). So it actually is easier to grasp in the hand than most other phones of similar size, only bested by the (much smaller) iPhone 7 (4.7-inch screen vs. 5.8-inch for the S8). The sound systems are also improved, as the speaker is louder and more clear, and the audio processing is much much better for listening to music with your earphones/headphones. However, it is still a mono speaker, not even stereo-immersive sound, and of course nowhere near as good as HTC's usual dual-speakers. Speaking of earphones, a pair of premium AKG earphones are included, which is the best factory-bundled earphones I have witnessed. It cannot compare to my Velodynes and Sennheisers, but it beats all other cheap generic bundled earphones. That reminds me, you should spend the extra $100 on the extra bundle, which in addition to the included VR headset, also includes a Samsun 256GB microSD card, and a pair of AKG Bluetooth headphones. Each sells for over $100, so you are actually saving a bunch: AKG Bluetooth Headphone Black (Y50BTBLK) Samsung EVO+ 256GB UHS-I microSDXC U3 Memory Card with Adapter (MB-MC256DA/AM). My S6 Edge worked fluidly and flawlessly in the first few month. But even with the top processor of the time, and 3GB of RAM, it slowed down as the memory neared the capacity, especially after the hundreds of photos began to pile up. The camera, once near instantaneous to turn on, now takes about a second. The S8, with its 4GB of RAM and either the Qualcomm Snapdragon 835 processor or Samsung's own Exynos 8895 so far is doing an impeccable job. The Snapdragon 821, and even the 820, is fast enough for 2017, so having the 835 and the Exynos 8895 future-proofs it for another 2-3 years at least, since I feel with each successive processor, we are getting to the point where the hardware requirements for software is plateauing, and you would only need the latest processors for video games which keeps getting better and better and continually needs the fastest processor. I think once we reach 6GB of RAM, any processor beyond the 835/8895 should be fast enough for every day apps of the next 10 years. In totality, this is the first phone since the S6 Edge that I got really excited about, and with the rumored OLED iPhone coming out this year, 2017 should be a great year for fans of both sides to upgrade. If you don't mind the $750+ price, you can't go wrong with the Samsung Galaxy S8. It is an investment that should last a few years, or at least until those foldable screen phones come out....
Despite a number of other reviews claiming this phone doesn't work on Verizon, I had zero issues. Just swapped the SIM over and it connected to both LTE and phone service. My guess is that the people that couldn't get it to work ordered from a third party and weren't actually getting the US version. I ordered direct from Amazon, and got the advertised phone. The screen is the primary reason I was interested in this phone. It's beautiful. My last phone had a normie LED screen, and always looked washed out and inconsistent. This phone has a great OLED screen. It's the least expensive big-brand phone I could find with a nice OLED screen. It does not disappoint. Colors are vibrant and beautiful, and it handles very bright images and very dark ones really well. My only disappointment with the screen came from the aspect ratio: streaming video doesn't fill it up, and you end up with black bars on both ends as a result. That's just a matter of design, and no fault of the screen itself. I felt it worth mentioning because I ordered this phone primarily to improve my streaming video experience. It did, qualitatively, but the extra screen real estate is just wasted on black bars at the end. To be fair, the narrower aspect ratio does make it a lot easier to use as a phone...which is what it's for. Performance is good. I'm not a power user. I mostly just use a phone to stream video, browse the web, communicate by text, listen to audio books/music, and maybe the occasional phone call. I'm not very demanding of a phone's CPU. I've only run into an issue with slight stutter browsing sites that had too many ads that were in the process of loading, but that'd likely happen on any phone. Everything fires up very rapidly and I have no issues navigating anything. The camera is good enough. It's better than my last phone, especially at taking shots in darker rooms. It does a solid job of making everything look well lit. It does have it's limits. This isn't a Pixel. When I picked it up, it cost $200 less than the Pixel 3a XL, so I didn't expect it to hang in every regard. I don't take a lot of pictures with my phone, so this wasn't a huge priority for me anyway. It does a good job with the simple stuff I do take pictures of, though, so I'm happy with it. Now, for the 100 ton elephant in the room: the fingerprint reader. It's not great. My last phone's fingerprint reader was located on the back, and it worked a lot better. My phone was unlocked before I'd removed it from my pocket because my index finger naturally found it's way to the reader. It was very organic. The location on this phone's fingerprint reader is really poorly thought out, and I suspect that's largely to blame for it's inconsistent performance. It's located where the phone's keyboard manifests, which makes it the dirtiest part of the screen. It sees the most finger traffic, so it accrues the most oils. That leads to some inconsistent readings. I did notice that if the reader won't recognize your print a few times, you can just wipe your finger over it to clear it, then try again. That usually does the trick, and isn't as disruptive. The issue seems to be false readings of print contours from buildup of dirt/oil over the reader. I've also taken to wiping the screen off here and there. That has significantly improved performance of the fingerprint reader. It's probably a good policy with any phone for accurate keyboard registration. I knew that in-screen fingerprint readers were a bad idea before I picked up a phone that had one, and I was right. It's more convenient when you've got your phone sitting next to or in front of you, certainly, but my phone's generally in my pocket. I grip the edges of it when I'm pulling it out, so in order to unlock it I have to move my thumb over to the keyboard after it's all the way out and level. It's clunky and inorganic to do one-handed, and will likely lead to some people dropping their phones. I do understand why it's appealing to some, especially if you work at a desk and keep your phone out and sitting on it. You can just touch the screen and it opens. For my normal use case it's just inconvenient. I'm hopeful that future phones will have both screen and back fingerprint readers to make unlocking under both use cases faster and easier, but I guess we'll see. Another issue I have with the reader is that it can only store three prints. You can't do both thumbs and both index fingers. I opted to do my left thumb and both index fingers because I keep my phone in my left pocket. That made it easy to open on a desk with either hand, or at least less clunky with the hand I pull the phone out with. I didn't bother with face recognition because I don't feel like something you can fool with a picture is smart enough to be considered security. All in all, I'm very happy with my purchase for the price. If this were a flagship with those issues on the fingerprint reader, I'd have returned it. However, the fingerprint reader problems are manageable with a little care, and this is a budget phone. I don't expect perfection. Ultimately, the solid performance and beautiful screen are worth it. I'd recommend this phone to anyone looking for something with a really great cost:performance ratio. This phone is great if you're not looking to drop a mortgage payment on a cell phone.
If you are into running apps, taking Hi-Def pics/videos, sending emails, twitter, facebook, and all of the other stuff younger people are totally into these days this phone will knock your socks off! However, I just need a rugged phone that works on ATT’s network. I only need basic functions that work and these functions need to work superbly. Unfortunately, this phone fails at some of the most basic functions. I need a touchscreen that works (this one is WAY too sensitive. It detects your finger from ½” away sometimes). I need a speaker phone that works. I need a camera that works exceptionally well. I need an ear speaker that is loud enough to hear in noisy manufacturing environment. I need to be able to quickly and easily send text with attachments. Finally, I need a vibrate function that I can feel in my pocket when I’m out on the shop floor walking. Sadly, this phone fails at all of the above. Cons: 1) The vibrate is barely stronger than the S4’s vibrate that is broken. It’s the only reason I upgraded from the S4 Rugby I was using before purchasing the S6 Active 2) The Text function on this phone is ridiculous. It sends any picture attachments as a separate text ahead of the text itself. I don’t need that. It waste more time and data 3) The camera flash on the S6 Active is not even HALF as powerful as my S4 Rugby’s. Taking VERY close pictures inside a client’s house late in the afternoon (still daylight) and the picture was too dark. I turned on the flash and it made almost no difference. All the flash did was make the picture brighter toward the middle and dark around the edges. I was only 3 feet away from the area I was snapping a photo of. PATHETIC!! My old flip phone had a brighter flash than this thing. Is it defective?? Everyone is raving on how great the camera is. They should take a pic with my S4 Rugby. I can snap a photo of my desk top LED flatscreen monitor with my S4 and you can actually READ the text and see true color. I tried this yesterday with the S6 Active and after 6 tries I gave up. It is useless! If I’m taking Hi-Def pics outside it probably will work great. I have a CAMERA for that! 4) The speaker phone function is as bad as the camera. I have to use the speaker phone on nearly 75% of my phone calls. I have to call contractors and other people and I will have clients with me that need to be in on the conversation. My S4 Rugby worked FLAWLESSLY for this! Not once in 24 months has a single person complained about the S4’s sound quality (none of the CAN YOU HEAR ME NOW BS!). I’ve made 5 conference calls already on this phone with clients next to me and it was EMBARRASING to say the least! No one could hear a word any of us were saying. I had to give up all 5 times and turn the speaker phone option off and just talk with the phone to the side of my head. This speaker function on this phone gets a NEGATIVE 5 on a scale of 0 to 5. My 1998 Motorola Flip Phone had a better speaker phone than this thing. Seriously! 5) There is no memory card!! This is a HUGE let down!! I take pictures all day and store them on the memory card. It takes too much time to transfer these via blue tooth or some cloud BS. Plus, these photos are confidential and to trust blue tooth or clouds with confidential pics I’m taking is asking for trouble. With my S4 Rugby I simply buy a new memory card and swap cards. I take the old card and stick it in my computer’s card reader and transfer all the files. Now I’m forced to do something that is less secure and SLOWER. 6) There’s no battery. When this battery fails you are forced to send the phone out for repairs. This is total BS! I can’t believe anyone would design a device that is totally dependent on a battery and you can’t replace the freaking battery. Pros: 1) It’s VERY light weight to be classified as a rugged phone. How rugged this phone is up for debate. Most of the 1 star reviews I’ve read concern how delicate this phone is. 2) It has a very clear screen. The resolution on this screen is as good or better than any smart phone I’ve ever seen. I rate it right up there with the I-Phones. 3) It’s very thin. It fits comfortably in my front paints pocket even though it has a 5” screen vs my old S4’s 4”. 4) It’s very fast. Everything on this phone is lightning fast. It doesn’t matter what you do it does it faster. My S4 had some lag time even when snapping a photo. Opening an app on the S4 would result in some lock-ups some times. With this phone your APPS open instantly. This is really good if that’s what you are into. I just need a phone that does the basics really good. I could care less that I can download 1000 apps and run multiple apps at once…..woop-t-doooo
In October 2015, I switched from my older Note 3 to Note 5. Now after almost 5 months, I have some good understanding of this phone, so I can provide some guidance to those who consider this model. I am an early adopter of Note series and starting with Note 1 moved to Note 2 and then Note 3. Each time it was well worth of upgrading. I passed, however, on Note 4 since with few added things I was also going to loose my faster USB3 and a few sensors (temperature and humidity) that were really useful to me. However, Note 3 metallic-covered edge got all worn out from sweet and looked really bad. I decided, it was time to upgrade. This is my second upgrade of one of the Samsung devices where I was not really happy. Before that, each time I upgraded, I gained good things - some I need, some don't. With this upgrade, I gained a bit but lost a lot. Here is a balance of good and bad things from a prospect of someone using Note 3 before. What I gained: * Nicer look - real metal, slightly curved class, not metallic-covered plastic and a flat glass of Note 3. Easier to clean, nicer look * A bit more narrow, mostly by loosing unnecessary margins, but also lost a few hairlines of screen real estate, but not critical. Better fits in hands, especially if you have small hands, better fits to a standing tray in my car * Better screen, real HD - could be good if you have young sharp eyes, but for most cases not critical, only consumes more battery life * Better front camera - and much better selfies (I guess, it could be the only real reason to upgrade). Finally, you could use selfies as real pictures. * Better main camera - but I think at that point making better main cameras doesn't matter. If you are not serious and just want to share something on FB, even Note 3 was OK. If you are serious, you will need a real camera with a reasonable lens. * A tad better sound * A bit less bloatware. Bad: - **Miserable** battery life. This is by far the worst problem that should be critical for everyone who is interested in this model. My Note 3 could live two days with a newly charged battery. And once a battery grew older (usually in 6 months), I can plug new one in. Note 5 can't survive even one day - even if I am not doing anything serious on it. I guess finer screen and much more energy-hungry OS are responsible, otherwise, it is hard to explain why it is so bad. And my battery is still less than 6-month-old. Unfortunately, there is no way to replace the battery for Note 5 - another bad design idea - I will need to replace the whole phone in a few month. * Too little memory: No SD card with only 64GB max internal space available on the market. As a result storage space is not acceptable for any serious phone user. With Note 3, I had 32GB and 64GB card (which I could upgrade for 128GB). Now I have only 64GB with no chance to expand. I can't even fit all necessary apps and all music - had to choose. No space to get movies if you want to watch something on the road. With my Note 3 I used to have 5-6 movies that I could watch in a spare time, now I only have space for two - and with a sacrifice of music space. Remember, you do not get these 64GB even if you selected most expensive model. A lot is already used by OS and other stuff. But if you do not want a lot of music (you are always on a good connection and use Spotify) and all your movies can be streamed, for apps alone 64GB could be still OK. * Only one antenna. You can’t be online and talk at the same time unless you are using VoIP. Unfortunately, you need 4G for that - if you are in areas when 4G is spotty (and there are many), you re out of luck. Either call or work online. * This one antenna seems to be a bit worse than Note 3 antenna - I checked with two network signal apps - reception is a bit lower for Note 5. I got me scared, however, I have not noticed any issues related to it. * No USB3 - only USB2. This is a really big difference when you want to upload a new movie, but otherwise not a big issue * No sound in the USB port anymore, i.e., if you have a multimedia dock with audio output, you can't use it with Note 5, no sound. Too bad, this was my favorite way to listen to music * No infrared. Bad for me, I enjoyed using Note 3 as a remote for everything at home and office (projector!), could not be an issue for you. * No my favorite temperature and humidity sensors. Sad, I used Note 3 on a stand as a term/hygrometer. It was quite good. The last 4 features were already lost with Note 4, so if you are switching from Note 4, you do not see a difference. So, as usual, a balance of good and bad depends on your needs and current phone. If features lost in Note 5 are not critical, and those gained are, you are in a luck, although miserable battery life could be an issue for most of the potential users who are on the go. For me it was sadly a way down - too little gained, too much lost. One thing not mentioned for pro users, with Note 1-3, one was sure that it is a top-of-the line phone that has everything that competitors have and more. With Note 5, you just have a phone - one of many - with some features being better than competitors, but other worse and many critical features missing. It leaves me wondering, how Samsung might do such a poor job in designing top-of-the-line phone.​ I still hope, Note 6 will change the downward trend and will be again the top phone. If not, Note 5 is likely to be my last in the line.
Authors note: this is a review of only the camera and does not represent other functions of the phone. Although the S7 edge was tested, this review applies to both the S7 and S7 Edge camera. Rating: 4/5 What I Like: -Clear, clean images with low noise -Excellent low-light and indoor photos -Shallow depth of field with pleasant background blur -Good colour balance -Smooth high FPS video -Easier to use interface What I Don't Like: -Daylight images have less detail than previous generation 16MP cameras Summary: While the S7 Edge has a great camera, it's only a minor step up from last years phones. It was very hyped to me by friends and family so when I finally got my hands on one to test I was not as blown away as they were. I find that my previous generation phone camera is as good or nearly as good in most cases, so I won't be making the switch yet. That being said, this camera is fantastic and a contender for the best camera phone to date, just not as good as I had hoped. ------ Full Review ------ Daylight Photos - Rear Camera: In daylight, Samsung's camera reacts like any other recent high end camera phone. The images are overall pleasant, with excellent colour rendition and a good amount of detail. A wider aperture means higher shutter speeds, and reduced motion blur. In comparison to the the LG G4, the LG produced images with more detail at the expense of a slight bit more noise. This difference was fairly significant in some situations where distant signs and details in landscapes would render crisper on the LG. Most people wouldn't notice unless they had these camera phones side by side, and some may even prefer the smoother images of the Samsung, but to me it was as if there is noise reduction being constantly applied at the expense of detail. This isn't always the case however: take a look at the picture of the road. The crop shows more detail in the foreground road with the Samsung, but the license plate is illegible. But with the LG, it is possible to read the license plate of the truck. While in part, this is due to the Samsung being a bit wider angle, but overall the 16MP camera just has a little more detail by nature. The LG isn't without its own problems, for example side by side with the Samsung the colour looks just bad, but the difference between the two cameras isn't enough to make me want to immediately jump ship. Where the Samsung wins overall is in white balance. The colours the Samsung produces are more natural, with just a hint of warmth, and this results in overall more pleasant images. In terms of exposure, I find the Samsung is a little bit brighter and more colourful because it has better dynamic range. It doesn't lose highlights as easily and shadows have more detail. The iPhone 6s+ was the runner up in all categories in terms of detail, sharpness and colour. Low light photos - rear camera: Low light is where the Samsung camera excells compared to any other smartphone I've tested to date. Due to its lower megapixel count, the camera is able to render images with less noise and more detail compared to competitors. This means smoother skin in indoor portraits, more detail and overall more pleasing images. Lens flares and light-stars are far more pleasing than the other phones I tested. Again, it's not enough of a difference that I want to jump ship from my LG G4, but it is better at rendering smooth night images. Autofocus: Autofocus was consistent and fast. I never had the camera fail to focus in good lighting. In poor lighting it was a little slower, but generally still accurate. No complaints here. Front facing camera: The FFC is what blew my mind with the S7. This camera is significantly better than any other front facing camera I've tested to date. It is better because it doesn't have those weird crispy artifacts around edges in the image. It produces smooth skin tones, good colour and low noise in low light. Video: Video with the S7 is very good. It is smooth, does not lose frames and focus is consistent. Brightness, contrast and colour are all excellent. Noise is kept to a minimum. This is another section where the Samsung is great. I didn't get a chance to compare it directly with the iPhone, but it definitely one-ups the LG G4, where I have noticed occasional jittering especially with a slower SD card. Conclusion: After a week of playing with the S7 Edge, I've decided that I'm going to keep my LG for now. Even as a professional photographer the difference in the rear camera is not noticeable enough that I want to move to Samsung. Perhaps it was all the hype that played it up, or perhaps it was something else, but while I was impressed with the camera on this phone I wasn't blown out of the water. The front-facing camera is a different story. It renders significantly better images than any other FFC I've tested to date. Selfie shooters or those who are using older phones such as the Samsung S5, owners of budget phones or the 8MP iPhones will find the difference far greater than others. If you need an excellent camera phone and are on more of a budget, pick up last years LG G4 or a Nexus 6 and you'll be just as happy with the camera. Robert D. DrekiTech
To the intention of all persons whom may be interesting or want to purchase this phone from this seller I 'm advancing not to do it.I just bought this phone in August 2018 and since I have it I,m experiencing a delay to my text messaging specially when my phone is turn off a night when I go to sleep and the next morning when I turn on my phone I won't receive my text message until 6 to 7 hours later one after I turn on my phone which ever happened with all my previous Samsung .First of I taught it could be from my carrier ,and I brought the issues to they intension they check everything in they hand which was all fine ,and they told me that it is phone it self ,after that I call the Samsung customer service for the same problem they also told usually they phone does not do such think like that but anyway they reset my phone to the manufacture setting to solve the issues yet nothing change still havin the same issues .Then I Remarque a little dark spot on screen of my phone first I taught it is a dirty and I clean it but it did not goes away and some suddenly it is getting bigger little by little that is when I call the Amazon customer service to tell them about the problems I'm having with this product since I bought it because I did buy an extended insurance when I purchased the phone. The customer service agent whom helped me told me that my phone should have one year of manufacture warranty that the extended warranty I bought is after the one year manufacture warranty expires. He ask me if I have the original box of the phone and tell him the warranty which my phone did not come with one ,then he told me to register my phone to Samsung .com that after we will be able to find the warranty and he stay on line with me all that time I did the registration thought Sansung but unfortunally Samsung Company reject my serial number which was weird to both of us ,then he gave me the address of a repair facility call you Break we Fix when I brought my phone there show them my problem they also ask me for serial number and I gave to them and again they could not find my serial number and the guy asked me to took my phone out of case as soon I took of of the case he looked the barcode on the back of my phone he told me that this phone is not belong to Samsung of USA there fore they can't help me with the LCD damage I have on my phone .After I left there I contact Samsung customer service directly for validation of my serial number and contact me the next day to tell me that my phone it not belong to the Samsung of USA therefore they can't validate my serial number.After trying all the possibility I can now a contacted the Breed Company to notified them of the issues I'm having with my phone and they respond is that my phone is guaranteed for one month only which is expired so they can't doing anything I respond them back that my phone should have one year manufacture warranty again they respond to me was to take my phone to a repair facilities or contact my carrier for they insurance whic we all know that all those phone carrier doesn't insure any outsider phone they only give an insurance for they phone but not from somewhere else Again I contacted Amazon customer service to let them what is goin on between me and this particular Seller Amazon gave me the contact number of the Seller and I called them in person and they told me that my phone had 90 day warranty which is expired so they can't do nothing and I told them now it is 90 day but in the email they sent to me is 30 days what is the really one ?they just hang up the phone on me. I' m still fighting with them but in the meanwhile I just want warring any one whomis leaving in USA and is interesting of or planing to buy a phone from this phony Company please don't do it save your money and go buy a quality phone from the true Samsung carrier.I' m very very disappointed and regret why I bought this phone from the Bree Phony company ever.👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻👎🏻
I did about a month of research prior to purchasing this phone. Comparing online the Samsung S8/S9/S10 and other brands from China. Seeing that I have owned Samsung from the S3 I am partial to the brand as it has always done well for me. I needed a phone in the US to function with two SIM cards simultaneously, one for work one for home, without having two completely different cell phones. I should also say, that I was not interested in an Apple Device. The carrier that both of my SIM cards uses is ATT. At the time of purchase, ATT does not carry a Samsung device in the US that offers a dual SIM capability. In the Box (factory sealed with intact seal): - Galaxy S10 (SM-G973F) - AKG wired headphones w/mic - US wall plug w/USB C cord (charger) - Pre-installed screen protector (brand unknown as it was already on the phone) - Clear plastic case (brand unknown, and offers minimal protection) - 128GB SD Card (not able to use internal to the phone due to my need for 2 seperate SIM cards) - USB C Male to standard USB female adapter (use for data transfer and/or keyboard/mouse capabilities) - Informational material specific to the phone - Internal SIM card holder with dual functionality (Can hold 2 micro SIM Cards or 1 micro SIM and one SD Card) Initial power on and setup: - Battery was 50% +/- charged - Initial power up was in another language, however a drop down menu on the initial screen offered English (Canada). This option was selected and found to be what as needed for proceeding with US setup - Effortless data transfer from Samsung S8 to S10 using Samsung Smart Switch. - The ATT SIM card was plug and play, no additional setup was needed other than inserting the SIM into the phone. Initial impressions/functions of S10: - Dual SIM capability (yes, both are physical SIM cards (no eSIM) - Wireless charging (Yes) - Headphone jack (Yes) - 3 main rear cameras and 1 front camera (all function very well) - Hidden fingerprint scanner (works well) - Facial recognition (works really well, I no longer need to use my fingerprint unless I am in very low light conditions) - Bixby, (another "helper" akin to Alexa, Google, etc. I was never really a fan of my phone talking to me, so this will probably be more of a toy than a feature for me personally. However, there is a dedicated button on the left hand side for Bixby. This button can be customized with a tap or double tap for an additional quick launch of an app. I chose a single tap for my camera. - Other interesting, helpful, gimmicky, etc function on the phone. Some are great and add well to the phone. Others, I simply disabled or hid. Dual SIM: The real reason I purchased the phone. - I will start by saying that this international version of the S10 was EXACTLY what I was hoping for in a cell phone. - Two separate physical ATT SIM cards are being used. - On the phone screen I am able to see signal strength for both SIM cards - I am able to set a default SIM card for: 1) Phone Calls, 2) Text, 3) Data. This is done easily with a swipe down from the top of the screen and shown directly below the primary settings (such as WiFi, GPS, BlueTooth, etc.) - However, default does not mean that the "secondary" SIM is in standby. - When making calls, I am given the option of easily calling from SIM 1 or SIM 2 (which can also be identified with different symbols rather than numbers, such as a home symbol and work symbol). - When texting, I am given the option of easily sending from SIM 1 or SIM 2, same things with the symbols. - When using data, the phone uses the default setting that was chosen by the user. - The phone is able to receive calls for both phone numbers without having to change settings. - All in all, I am very impressed with the intuitiveness of the design, capability, and ease of use with the dual SIM functionality. Overall Impression: With everything from purchase cost, minimal wait time for delivery, setup, use, and functionality I am very impressed. At this time, there is not a single thing about the phone where I would say "this could be better". I will say that I am not a gamer, thus the phone will not be used for them. I cannot comment on how well it would be used for games. I do take many pictures than range from people to panoramic vista views of National Parks and the phone is used as my main daily use camera. Samsung has never let me down in this area. Very happy with this purchase.
I preordered the note10 plus so i could receive it soon as it was available for shipping. When i received the device it was new looked nice. As i was getting familiar with the device I kept seeing the commercials about the 30 min fast charging. I noticed mine would take over 4 hours to charge from maybe a 10%percent to get back to 100%. After messing with the settings, and knowing that 5G connectivity is around the corner if not already available in certain areas. My device said auto connect to 2g and 3g, with the majority being connected to 2g. (I did not purchase the 5g model) I called Samsung, they had me chat with a representative through text. This device is supposed to come with a 12 month warranty but they acted like I did something and am trying to get over on them. They asked if I'd dropped or exposed the device to water more than a few times during the chat session. Didn't offer any type of repair or exchange. They walked me through numerous trouble shooting options. (Factory reset) That didn't work so they gave me information to one of their connected repair shops. I took the device in and immediately the gentleman said that sounds like a software issue and here we do the physical things like cracked screen etc. I call Samsung again get passed the chat process finally talk to a real person. This representative was nice, but the same questions about dropping and water exposure. Explained the process I've already been through, finally agrees to get me a shipping label since other options haven't worked. They required me to send charging cable and (my sim card) already explained that i tried numerous sim cards even a different carrier since it's unlocked, (a guy from work let me use his real quick) same issues. I sent the item, received email updates about the status, like they received it, it's being worked on etc. It was returned with a note explaining what they did to it and that issue was corrected. Immediately I noticed they hadn't addressed the connectivity issue only charging problem. I had to wait for the battery to die down to see how long it took to charge. Remember the commercial said lightning fast 30 min? Well mine still took over 4 hours to fully charge. I received a survey by email asking how did we do. I was honest and was not the best review stated my unhappiness about all the hoops that I have to jump through and after paying over $1200 I still don't have the device with the capabilities I thought I purchased. Received an email with a small apology and said ship it to us once more and we'll replace the device to make it right. I did that and it's been around 3 weeks and iI have no confirmation emails with status updates. I tracked my package through UPS and it was delivered and received. I finally called and they told me they had received it (two days later than UPS records) No further information since they barely received it. I called again and asked they informed me they have to take it apart to find the problem. I said I was told to send it back to get a replacement. They said no they are going to inspect it for water damage or evidence of dropping, and they are going to repair it if they deem it can not be repaired they will send a replacement. Also they said the connectivity issue was not addressed because I refused to send in my personal sim card. I still have no status updates of any kind no emails nothing. So my advice is not to deal with Samsung directly and to go to your carrier where they exchange them easier and let them deal work Samsung. Im extremely disappointed with Samsung over this ordeal I started with the S5 and have bought galaxy exclusively for my family over the years including tvs and a refrigerator. Now that it was time to upgrade the kids s7 edge and s8 active I let them both go to the dark side and get Iphones. Didn't want to Jane to deal with this issue 2 more times. I was supposed to give my mother my S10e when i got the note 10 plus but not due when that's going to happen so most likely going to use her upgrade to go apple they have a lot better customer service.
I bought the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge G935F in Black from this product page a week ago. A lot of people have asked questions about this particular international version so I'll answer some of those first. For starters, the one I got was the english edition for the Saudi Arabia market (see attached photos, the guides came in english and arabic). From what I can tell, the phone is the same as any other international edition but with different preinstalled apps. Mine came with a SA region specific app "Shaid" (seems to be a YouTube-esque app in arabic) that I uninstalled and WhatsApp. Other than that the only remaining bloatware was stock Samsung apps (no carrier apps, thank god), the only other thing I noticed that may be region specific is the S Planner app has a "Hijri dates adjustment" setting. Lastly this version ships with a non-us wall charger (aside from the regular stock accessories) shown in my review images. Mine also came with an adapter for use within the U.S., I have tried it and can confirm that it works with fast charging. This phone also uses a different chipset (manufactured by Samsung, called Exynos 8890) than the U.S. version. Reviews I read noted that the phone was actually optimized for this chipset w/ better performance and battery life than the U.S. Qualcomm counterpart (Google it). In the U.S. version the Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 chip is used to support Verizon and Sprint customers whereas this version only supports GSM carriers. To preface the review of the actual use of the phone, I have owned the following devices and used them each as a daily driver for at least a months time: Samsung Galaxy S4 GPE, Samsung Galaxy S5, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S, HTC One M8 GPE, iPhone 6, iPhone 6S, Nexus 5, Nexus 5X, Nexus 6P. The Galaxy S7 Edge has been the most delightful experience of the bunch. I won't go into great detail here but the camera is phenomenal and launches faster than any other phone I've owned w/ a double tap of the home button. The camera's auto focus is super fast and I feel like I'm able to get a capture a lot of moments that my previous phones were too slow to shoot. It's also nice to be able to change the quick launch apps on the lock screen, I have the dialer and snapchat as mine. Continuing a theme of high performance this phone is incredibly fast despite powering a QHD resolution screen. Apps are surprisingly quick to load and multitasking is a breeze (I even found some use in the Samsung's split screen feature). The fingerprint scanner is on par with apple devices (and nexus 6p/5x) although because of it's non-circular shape I find that I place my finger the wrong way more often. The battery is the best of any device I've used as a daily driver, I've been able to get through days of heavy usage like today (unplugged from charger at 5:45am, now at 25% at 9:03pm). The screen is BEAUTIFUL. Not only is it easy to read even in direct sunlight (something I have seen other devices struggle with) but the colors are vibrant and the screen is huge without making the phone too big or bulky. Perfect for watching YouTube videos and browsing instagram. Lastly a few notes if you buy this phone: - If you're not a fan of the stock Samsung launcher you can get the Google Now launcher from the Play Store, it's the same one used on Nexus devices and feels smoother than Samsung's launcher. - This time around Samsung decided to give you bigger icons which drove me nuts, search for "Get more on your Galaxy S7, S6 or Note 5 screen with hidden DPI scaling settings" from Android authority to get a 5th column on the home screen and smaller UI elements. - "Edge functionality" is just okay. The feature feels a bit less than polished because of the weak offerings in the Samsung app store - I have it turned off. Edit 4/8/2016: sorry about the quality of the photos of the actual phone - they were shot with the wide angle lens of my GoPro whereas the other images were shot with the S7 Edge. Edit 4/10/2016: added some higher quality images from my new camera. Update 5/9/2016: I've been using the phone as a daily driver for over a month now. I'm still impressed by the overall gfx smoothness, how fast apps load, and camera performance. Update 7/25/2016: still in love with this phone. I'm honestly not sure what would compel me to purchase a new phone at this point.. I also rooted the phone and changed the emojis to the iOS 9 set with the Emoji Switcher app from the play store. No more guessing when messaging my iOS friends =) A lot of commenters have asked which seller I purchased mine from: Wireless Everything.
I've had every Note in the Note series of phones since the 2nd generation and this is the best one yet. Design I've found this to be one of the best designed phones I've used and I've had most of the flagship phones over the years. It feels incredibly solid and balanced in the hand. The curved glass on the back of the phone makes it feel natural and easy to grip. I've seen people complain that the glass design makes it very slippery but I've found it more grippy than many popular aluminum designed phones. The side of the device features a solid aluminum bezel with an anodized finish. It doesn't have the same shiny, sharp, scratch prone edges that the previous generation had which makes it feel great in hand and more durable long term. Between the beautiful design and great in hand feel I'm hesitant to even put a case on it. The bezels are very narrow especially along the sides of the display which combined with the curved glass on the back makes it smaller than other devices in the same category(even those with smaller displays). I've used both the white version and own the 64 GB Black Sapphire version. The white version has a very subtle shimmer when in direct light. Kind of like a white pearl. The Black Sapphire version looks black in some conditions but when the light hits it it is a deep shimmering blue. Software On my Verizon version there was a lot of carrier apps and a few games that I didn't want. These can be disabled. Beyond that the general UI and software seems much scaled back and toned down from previous versions. The UI is much cleaner and lighter. I like the stock look but you also have a theme store so you can change the look entirely. I like to use a theme called Material Dark which is a dark take on the stock UI of Googles Nexus phones. These themes carry across the general UI, icons, and into things like the stock Samsung Messages & email apps and even the stock Keyboard. It's a great improvement in general. You can open multiple windows for multitasking. I personally love having the YouTube app playing a video on top while using Chrome to browse. Display I've found the display to be a great improvement over the previous gen. While it's the same as far as size and resolution I feel like the Note 5's is not only more accurate but the display on my unit is more even. My older model's display was more yellow on the bottom and blue on the top of the display while this Note 5 display is consistent and even. This is one of the coolest(as in white/bluish)AMOLED displays I've seen. I've even had people comment on how blue it looks. I personally prefer cooler looking displays vs yellow displays so I really like it. It has great brightness and if you leave it on auto brightness it gets quite bright and contrasty when you are outside. Battery Life I've been getting very good battery life. With mixed usage I've been getting around 6.5 hours of screen on time and sometimes as much as 1 day and 18 hours of standby time. Please note that I read Kindle books a lot with the brightness turned very low so this could skew my screen on time a bit higher than average. I still haven't had a moment where I've run out of battery in a days usage. In my opinion one of the most notable features on the Note5 is the rapid charging. It fully charges in around 1 hour and 15 mintues. You will get several hours of charge just by putting it on the rapid charger for 15 minutes. Samsung also has a Rapid Wireless Charger coming soon that I'm very excited about. It fully charges the phone in around two hours. If you are looking for something more portable they also have a Rapid external battery charger accessory available. I have acquired a generic QI wireless charger and my phone fully charges in around 3-4 hours. Overall, between the good battery life and the rapid charging I don't see as much of an issue with not having a removable battery. Fingerprint Scanner This is a real improvement. You no longer have to swipe your finger across it. It's easy to setup and I've actually been impressed with how accurate and quick it is. If on the rare chance that it doesn't properly register your fingerprint the phone vibrates to inform you it didn't. I've found on the occasions that it didn't work it was really my fault for pulling my finger away too quickly. Performance It is an incredibly snappy device. It's by far the best phone in terms of performance(and otherwise) that I've ever used. I have found absolutely no lag. The new scaled back Touchwiz helps a lot with this. Pages load instantly while browsing the internet. The phone unlocks instantly and without any lag even when using the fingerprint scanner. Camera The camera is probably one of my favorite features. It features 16 megapixels with optical image stabilization, f/1.9 lens, and 4k Video recording. It is extremely quick to load and snaps pics instantly. If you need to take a quick photo literally all you have to do to start it is raise your phone and double click the home button even with the display off and it's ready to go. The low light performance even without a flash has been just great. I took a photo of an item I was selling online in a nearly dark room and it came out clear and bright and with little noise even without having using the flash. The camera interface is great. You have the option to switch to a PRO mode which gives full manual controls. There is also an option to take pictures in RAW mode which adds another layer of quality. It focuses very quickly and pictures snap instantly. I've found that even with full auto mode the pictures turn out quite well. Overall, it's by far the best smartphone camera I've used. Stylus I've never been a huge user of the stylus on any of my Note phones. One of the things I do like using it for is things like jotting notes on screen shots or pictures when texting or emailing them. The other is using it for contextual menus in full desktop websites which literally no other phone can do. There is one thing about this model that is making me find it much more useful. You can now remove the stylus while the display is off. It will activate the screen with a solid black background and you can take notes on the fly. It's literally like having a digital notepad that you can instantly and conveniently whip outs and jot a note on without hassling with unlocking the phone. I find this hugely convenient and I'm guessing if most people try it the stylus will get used a lot more. I have mixed feelings in regards to the new click out stylus. You press it in like a button and it pops out enough to pull it out. I like that it is embedded and out of the way since I don't use it often but I'm very skeptical about the long term durability of the clicking mechanism. Also, you have to always be careful not to put in in the wrong way as it can get stuck and permanently damage your phone. I doubt it will happen but I would really like a revised version in the future. Storage I've used both the 32 GB White version and own the 64 GB Black Sapphire. The 32 GB has about 20 GB of storage free out of box and the 64 GB around 50 GB. Dislikes There isn't a lot that I don't like. One thing is there used to be an option to turn the lights off on the capacitive buttons. I like to turn them off when I'm reading so they don't glare in my eyes. This option to disable the lights is missing from the Verizon and maybe other carriers versions. Luckily I found a free app on the Play store that allows them to be disabled. Conclusion With most Android phones I've always felt like there was at least one thing missing that made me not completely like it. I haven't felt that so far with the device. I've found the updated and scaled back Touchwiz a huge improvement, the physical design of the phone to be top notch and not only look incredible but feel durable, it has the best smartphone camera I've used out of literally any device on any smartphone platform, and the performance is best in class. I know older Note users don't like that the removable battery is gone but I really feel like that is completely mitigated by the rapid charging. I do recommend you get the 64 GB version since there is no removable storage. Overall, I feel like it's literally the best device currently available.
SMARTPHONE INTRO I've been buying the latest and greats smartphones since the early HTC days and have owned just about every significant Samsung smartphone release since then. Every year I will stray over to other manufacturers to see what the big and small players are up to. Most, but not all of the time, I find myself right back to my Samsung phone as the daily driver. Which is usually a Note. Now that Samsung has released another Note series for an increasingly high price, let's see how it does. In particular against my Note 9 that it's replacing. PROS: + Excellent build quality + The high-resolution OLED display somehow looks even better than before + Superfast performance; zero lag + Much improved speakers that you can *feel* + The bezels continue to disappear; nearly all-screen + Core functions, such as phone calls, still work great + Lots of internal storage + expandable storage + Generous battery that truely lasts all-day + Fast wired and wireless charging for those very heavy phone usage days + The ever-useful stylus continues to evolve + 3 Camera Lenses for any scenario + Great picture & video quality with some useful features CONS: - Hole punch camera is distracting - The in-screen fingerprint reader takes a few steps back from the physical sensor - RIP headphone jack - Price keeps going up DESIGN Compared to the Galaxy Note 9, the Galaxy Note 10+ feels much more substantial than I expected. It has more heft and somehow even more solid feel to it. In particular with the Samsung OEM cases. Which are also expensive, but continue the high-quality impression of what you are holding in the hand. The left side has the volume up/down and power button. The bottom is USB-C port and stylus holder. The rest of the phone is fairly clean and simple. I prefer power on the right, but it's easy enough to get used to after a few hours. I opted for the white version to mix things up and I like it. It still provides a nice high-end look all while resisting visible fingerprints (and probably scratches) than most darker and shinier colors. Even with a 6.8" display, it's still roughly the same size as the Note 9. There is now simply less bezel. But due to the squared corners, it never feels small. If you aren't already used to large phones, this will take some getting used to. And as manufacturers continue to slowly push the size of phones combined with no more bezels to shrink, this is probably about as large as I expect a mainstream phone to go. Any further and folks are going to have issues. SOFTWARE Long ago this used to be Samsung's weakest point. They'd throw lots of half-baked features with no optimization, resulting in lots of lag and bloat. Those days are long gone. Samsung nailed that down with the Galaxy S9/Note 9 series. Except with the Note 10, it's even faster, and smoother. Which I suspect much credit goes toward the Snapdragon 855. I should note that I am a fan of Google's Android Experience. But every time I jump over to a Google phone (or another brand), I immediately start to miss all of the small but very useful features Samsung has built into their phone. The game launcher, scene optimizer, multiple lenses, display quality, high-end specs, etc. And honestly, after easily disabling Bixby, there isn't that much bloat. Disable/Remove a few random apps like Facebook and I'm good to go. PERFORMANCE As noted above, the performance is absolutely fantastic. Usually while going through initial setup or installing apps, these phones tend to get very laggy. This was probably the only time I saw a hint of lag, but surprisingly minimal. In that, I could easily and quickly perform other tasks while downloading and installing apps, games, music, etc. Each year as performance increases, the need for synthetic benchmarks decrease. I think they still serve a purpose in limited use-cases for a "reliable" baseline. But today, I'm not going to bother. This phone is fast and can do everything you want. DISPLAY & AUDIO The 6.8" WQHD+ Dynamic AMOLED display combined with some significantly improved speakers are simply the best upgrades from previous phones. Watching high-resolution content on YouTube or Netflix look and sound fantastic. I found myself glued to the screen during my demo session with various clips. Even the icons on the desktop almost pop from the screen. As though they are right there touching your fingers. The speakers finally have some force behind them as well. Allowing you to "feel" the vibrations in your hand. And yes, they are quite loud. With Atmos-enabled they provide a great stereo separation effect. I'll also mention there is an included screen protected. It's very thin but it's quite unobtrusive. I usually remove these. But since it virtually covers the entire screen and provides a smooth swiping experience, I'll leave it for now. And last I'll briefly mention the hole punch as it does have a negative impact with the multimedia experience. Anytime there is a bright scene around that area, my eyes are immediately drawn to it. This needs go away sooner rather than later. CAMERAS As the camera count increases, so too does the usefulness, functionality, and flexibility. The rear now has a 16MB ultra-wide camera, 12MP wide-angle camera (normal), and 12MP telephoto camera. The introduction of wide-angle is super useful and one I use very often. Each camera captures excellent pictures. I told my Pixel 3 and don't have it for comparison today. Are there better cameras available? I'm sure there are. But unless you are really comparing back-to-back, I doubt you'd notice. In particular, if you like to record video. That's one area the Pixel and some other phones don't do as well. The stability and clarity when recording 4K @ 60fp is excellent. Combined with solid audio recording and you've got a great overall camera package. I'm not into selfies, but that 10MP camera is somewhat mandatory these days. It's unfortunate it has resulted in a small but very noticeable hole in the screen. Which as noted above, is absolutely noticeable. In either case, it takes solid pictures as well. No complaints there. FINGERPRINT READER Unfortunately, there is another negative feature change. With the Galaxy Note 9, and virtually every other phone with a physical reader, you can just rest your finger and quickly unlock/wake your phone. With Samsung's implementation of the in-screen reader, you have to press firmly and wait a second for it to register. And if it doesn't read your fingerprint right away, it may be a few seconds or repeated attempts. If the screen is turned on, it does tend to be quicker. But you still need to press firmly and wait longer than in the past. I'm really hoping a software update improves this. Otherwise, I may just go back to the power button and a pin. DEX & "YOUR PHONE" There are a lot of other software features, but I did want to highlight these two as they are unique and stand out for me. I got used to Dex with my last Samsung phone. And there continue to be minor but useful improvements. Dex is surprisingly useful if you want to do some light work. When I'm on-the-go I can easily plug in a USB-C to HDMI cable, Bluetooth keyboard/mouse and have a portable desktop experience. You can also now use a normal USB cable and windows app to access Dex, it's just not ideal for games and multimedia. I've got personal and work e-mail, browser, youtube, office apps, and a range of other tools. I don't need to do video or photo editing on the go. And I found this can meet just about any task I need or want to do while traveling. This is a little more useful on a tablet, but in a different way, as the keyboard is already included. Less to travel with. And then there is the new Your Phone feature. This is a little more "early stage" in development, but still handy. Just plug in a USB cable to any Windows PC and you can mirror what's on your phone. You also have direct access to messages, but the mirror function is nice. You can interact with your phone, on the PC. All while charging it. I'd like to see more dedicated ports into this app. But being able to see and respond to any notification is great. Just don't expect to play games or smoothly stream youtube. THE PHONE That's right, this is still a phone. And as such, it needs to make phone calls! And other core functions. As I use this for both personal and work, this is a critical but often overlooked feature. While it may feel like more of a check-box item, I've had more than a few phones over the years that still fail in this arena. I'm pleased to report that phone calls and text are excellent. Speakerphone works well. No issues with hearing anybody and vice versa. The radios appear to be good quality. Bluetooth is reliable as well as wi-fi, which is very fast. I'm easily pushing 300-400Mbps up/down with my Google Mesh Wireless network. CONCLUSION So how exactly do you justify a $1,100 phone? Honestly, you really don't justify it. At least not in the traditional sense. My Note 9 would have continued to serve me well for another year. But we buy these phones because they're interesting, they entertain us, and they make life a little bit easier. And considering the significant percentage of time many of us spend on these portable gadgets, it starts to make sense that we want to allocate more budget towards them. While it's not perfect (no phone is), I still believe Samsung has enough features, functionality, quality, and performance for me to "justify" the Galaxy Note 10+'s price and keep it as my daily driver for another year. I'll still grab a few more phones that intrigue me between now and the Note 11, but I'd be surprised if they truly replaced this one. If they can, I'd welcome it.
Are you on ios and wondering how difficult jumping ship to the android flagship phones would be? Well, that is exactly what I did and here is my experience. I'm starting with my Conclusion because this is long: I love the hardware aspect of the Galaxy S8+ with very few exceptions. It's a beautiful phone. After a couple of weeks I have my phone useable with fairly similar apps and functions I used on iPhone. I like quite a bit of the additional functionality and customization offered. However, using the phone is like having every developer trying to turn the phone into a personal billboard trying to sell me something unless I'm willing to shell out $2 to $3 per app in most cases. To gain some of the higher end customization without ads can cost $5 or more in many cases. It is quite a bit less efficient in every day use due to lack of streamlined integration between apps and additional ads. ABOUT ME I have pretty much used ios for all my smartphone and tablet needs for about 8 years (or whenever iPhone 3gs came out - I'm 99% sure it was before 2010). I tested an android tablet for about 5 years ago and I was not impressed with the weight of the device nor the android apps so I stayed with ios. I'm pretty sure after that experience is when I purchased my first iPad. About a month ago I had a water incident with my iphone 6 plus and had to decide what phone to upgrade to. My motivation is because there are so many exciting phones in the near future, the Samsung reviews are extremely positive, and the Samsung S8+ is so much cheaper than the iphone 7+ after just months of being on the market (and I don't think this trend will change anytime soon). I jumped ship from ios so I could make a better decision about the next iPhone before its release (iPhone 8+ or whatever they name it). I've used the Samsung Galaxy Plus phone exclusively for about 3 weeks. Here is what I struggled with, my suggestions for non-android users, what I've learned about android ecosystem, the pros and cons post switching, and what I will likely choose next. PHONE DESIGN Big Pro - This phone design makes people drool. It looks great and it feel great in the hand - especially when you compare the plus size versions. I could have gone with the plain size of this phone and been absolutely happy. My eyesight isn't that great so the larger screen is great. Pro - The size of the phone is great in the hand. The smaller one is even better. It feels better than iPhone Plus in the pocket, however the height is about the same so short pockets still cause issues. Pro - Build quality seems top of the line. Buttons work great, etc. Pro - I like the color options better than other phones out there. Meh - Expected to be a fingerprint magnet - and it is. LOL Con - The hard to reach finger scanner on back - I type the unlock code OFTEN due to placement. Con - Dedicated Bixby button - this button is just in the way; its placement causes accidental Bixby engagement all the time and Samsung has locked users out of reassigning the button. PERFORMANCE/BATTERY Pro/Meh - In terms of speed the OS (Android Nougat I believe) on this device has come quite a long way. Overall I found the OS response almost on par with ios. I understand the difference between open architecture and Apple's closed architecture, so this is a great achievement but it doesn't outperform ios in my use so I can't mark it as a clear Pro. It felt capable in every way. It didn't glitch in a way that I didn't find acceptable but ios still wins here. Pro - The ability to change performance modes is nice for increasing battery life or performance. I don't play any high performance games, but the gaming folder options to set the phone as a priority for gaming (no interruptions and high performance) may be the reason for some users to choose this over iPhone. Pro - Quick charging and wireless charging are nice to have available (although I dont have those set up in my house). Meh - With the customization of this phone, it is easy to affect battery life without realizing it. In real day to day useage, I don't have all my charging stations set up for this phones usb c connector - I have iPhone chargers set up in many rooms of my house out of necessity. With most of the usb chargers I have, I dont feel this phone charges much faster than my iPhone. In my experience so far the phone underestimates how long it will take to get to a full charge by quite a bit maybe 20 or 30 percent. The good part is that I don't think it will be any worse than using my iPhone - but I'm not charging this thing any less either. DURABILITY Big Pro - Waterproof. Since my last phone died due water and I was always putting my phone in a ziplock bag to run when weather was questionable or out at the lake, this is something I am glad to have. Meh - Screen glass is marketed to be pretty scratchproof. I've ordered a screen protector and I tried to keep the film on the glass while waiting for it to arrive, but the film didnt stay adhered but 4 days or so. I've been careful and only carry the phone in my pocket by itself and I have a scratch. I've never scratched a phones screen this quickly but there are so many factors that I won't list it as a con. Meh - I cant speak to back durability personally since I was able to find protector quickly and have not dropped the phone. But videos online show that the back can crack if dropped on concrete from only 3 feet which is about waist height. Although other drop tests show it surviving drops from 5 feet, most crack the backglass at this height. Drop tests online seem to indicate decent front durability often surviving a 5 foot drop. From what I've researched, the front seems as durable as (if not a bit more than) an iPhone and the back really dictates a cover. SCREEN Pro - The screen resolution is great. I do like the screen, but in use at mid arms length away I can't tell much difference with the resolution at max or the mid setting. I appreciate the ability to run mine at the mid setting to save battery life. Big Pro - I stream movies on my phone often and getting a larger video with a more narrow phone is a GREAT experience. Pro - The curved glass is just sexy on electronics. The screens edge does a great job of ignoring touches when holding the phone. That edge is visible when the phone is face down so it can be set for notifications and I've seen the ability to run a stock ticker down it. Pro - Always on display with very little battery impact. I didn't realize how often I turn on my phone just to see the time or even date. Once this is set to disply the things you are 'just checking,' you will save some battery life. Con - The screen seems VERY dim in comparison to iPhone. It is capable of a comfortable brightness, but when maxed out I feel like I'm using a reduced setting from my iPhone. CAMERA Pro - That damn camera bump is gone!!! This phone will sit flat on the table - nuff said if you are using an iPhone. Pro - The cameras (hardware) on this phone are best in class. I give this phone the edge because in low light, it captures more light than any Apple phone. In bright light, it's a draw unless you truly have need of the 2 cameras on the iphone. In my use, my cropped images come out great so a 2nd lens doesn't add the same value as low light performance. My video needs are the same - I need more low light performance than ability to use a different lens. MEH - I'm not labeling this a con on purpose. I know there is a phone out there with 2 backfacing lenses. 2 lenses do not make me want that bump on the back of my phone. STORAGE Pro - You get a respectable 64 Gig onboard and can add a card (whenever you need it) to increase it at a reasonable price using standard 3rd party memory cards. None of that bulls**t Apple gouging. PORTS/BLUETOOTH Pro - Its accessories are all generic. It is so nice to buy an extra cable for $2. I know I can buy 3rd party apple cables but some fit well and some are so tight you may damage the phone. I LOVE not having to deal with that - although switching all my phone docks and cables did cost a few bucks. If the next iPhone switches its port, I wouldn't be able to use them anyway. Pro - The earphone jack. I am no audiophile and have gone wireless for audio in most ways. But by design, my car connects phones to the radio with an audio cable. This phone requires nothing new to use that. Its an added plus when I forget to charge my wireless headphones. Con - The usb c connection just doesn't feel as tight to me. When I connect the cable it doesnt align straight as easily as the lightning connector - even with using the cables provided with phone. Also, I get errors from different chargers that the phone is not connected completely. I think the error is because the phone is expecting a fast charger, but it has me a little concerned about reliability in the back of my mind. AUTHENTICATION/SECURITY Pro - Eyescanner is great for unlocking phone. I've had better restults than many reviews. Mine will usually scan me correctly from a reading position if I pull the phone up toward my face about 2 feet. Even in dim light it usually reads which greatly reduces this next con. Con - I am sooo used to the fingerscanner, it is an unatural action to unlock ANYTHING on this phone. The placement is not where I can reach it naturally so I have to shift the phone to scan and it has gotten to be a real pain in the ass when I unlock apps. Con - Eyescanner either does not work to unlock apps (like paypal, etc) or it isn't coded in a way to easily connect it. It seem to only unlock phone. Con - Did I mention logging into apps is a pain in the ass on this phone? Dashlane is an app that makes this a bit more bearable but once you know how easy it is on Apple it is hardly comparable replacment. If you use financial apps, you will dedicate some time to trying to get around this. I think on the standard phone the fingerprint scanner felt more accessible so this may be an issue specific to the plus model. Meh - Facescanner is available but a photo can unlock the phone. As easily hacked as this is, I don't see the point of using this. Maybe if I wanted to lock a younger child out of my phone. Anyone over the age of 8 that wants to get into your phone will get past this lock. Meh - I generally don't feel as secure with my data in the apps, OS, and features of this phone and the android infrastructure. Many find this a pro since you can choose all these different apps to help. It is the same feeling when I use my windows computer, security is all on my shoulders and I better address it someway. And all the free solutions have ads. Apple has a great track record with securing data, privacy, etc. Everything I read about setting up android points you to security features to enable. Am I protected? I've installed some suggested apps, but who the hell knows. CUSTOMIZATION Pro - Out of the box, this phone is one of the most highly customizable phones available to change your experience to how you want the phone to look and behave. You can add and remove features of the OS (like the app drawer which iphone users do not have), edit how app icon looks, rename or remove app names, etc. Some customizations are pretty sweet - like backgrounds can move with movement of the phone and the camera can be used to sync the background with whatever colors the camera is capturing. Pro - The keyboard can be reduced in size and offset to the side of your prominent hand so that the keys are easy to reach with one hand. If the Big Con for word prediction didnt exist, this might be a reason to change phones when using plus size. Meh - Speech of OS. It is good but Apple does relistic speech better. Con (if new to android) - It is overwhelming to use this phone out of the box without some grounding first. It may be licensing or userbase expectation, but there are dual applications for many functions. It is preinstalled with Samsungs version of chat, email, and browser apps as well as the Android standard equivilent. As you set these up and start using them, they'll be prompting back and forth to change defaults. Some are similarly named and the functions between each have nothing dictating where the app settings will be located, how to engage the settings, etc. The OS does not have any wizard guiding you through steps in an order that makes sense. Apple sort of walks you through step by step of creating your Apple account first, then security choices, etc. You get none of that here. You keep tinkering with creating accounts and settings until something works, then you move onto the next thing you want to work. It may take a week to get this phone to replace an iPhone completely if you use many apps at all. Big Con - Using the keyboard drives me close to insanity because of how often the wrong word appears. It is functional (I've defaulted to using Gboard after some comparing of 3rd party) but it takes about twice the effort as iPhone. If I hadn't used iPhone I likely wouldn't notice but I have used one and I notice this fault - every time I have to type an email or text message. Con - I have some loss in trust in settings to take and work as expected. I've had this phone ring at work when I thought I had do not disturb set. I do not know why the setting changed and it was easy enough to address, but you must click and look for check marks, okays, enable, save buttons that iPhone never requires you to click. There is no standard across the platform so unless you exit and go back into a setting, I never know it took. Big Con (for my use) - Enabling handicap features can be painful. On iPhone, I can set my phone up to triple tap to enable text to speech so the OS will read aloud to me. I use this very often to have kindle books read to me without having to rely on audible or paying for whispersync books. Enabling this on android is very difficult and it will not continue to read past a paragraph max. If someone has figured this out, please respond with comment. Big Big Big Con - Ads, ads, everywhere. Do you like having your phone boot into a screen with a big ad displayed in the middle of it? Well android provides that functionality - in fact every developer over uses it in a way iPhone users do not experience. Once you customize and get some crazy ad resulting, you'll need an app to find what is causing it. In fact, I almost returned this phone on day 2 because of an ad. And I got some good advice I'm passing along to you if you keep reading. FUNCTIONS Pro - Best 3d experience available on a phone. For under $10 you can get a 3d headset for your phone and be immersed in some pretty awsome videos. Yes, iPhone does this too, but Samsung does it better. What I did not know is that the experience is 360 degrees. You'll need to stand up to turn around and see what is behind you, but when you are flying in that jet, you can see the pilot if you turn around. I watched a cartoon with aliens in front of me and rabbit hiding behind me and I missed half of the action because I kept trying to check what the rabbit was doing. This is not something I need to have in anyway, but it is fun and costs very little to get set up. Be forewarned, you will be seasick after your first use and riding a rollercoaster standing up in 3d can make you fall down. Pro - Audio over wireless just sounds better to me compared to iPhone 6. I don't know about other versions but with same headsets I get more bass, etc. Meh - Phone calls are okay but I'm not impressed with the app. It is harder to use and integration between apps is not all that great. Here are some of the items harder than iPhone - answering a call, finding and calling a contact, setting up a 3way call, adding a new call into a current call (still haven't gotten it to happen), selecting a phone number in another app and having phone app open and call. Meh - Bixby is Samsungs response to Siri (and Google Assistant which is on this phone also). In concept Bixby should develop into something more useful than Siri for chaining commands together (set this setting and opne this app, or open this app and do this), but it is not fully realized yet. Having to hold the button for the duration of the command comes difficult to me and it feels unnecessary and I just don't like it. And I don't like that button anyway. Engaging google assistant is the same as Siri and I like that way of turning it on better. I've used Siri more so I know what to expect and I know what it does. I have less favorable results with both of these but Bixby was only recently enabled. I think it may develop into something pretty nice to use if Samsung will rethink that button and the requirement to hold it for the duration of the command. And honestly about half the time I've clicked on the Bixby button, I was trying to hold my phone or adjust my volume - bad placment. Con - One better like clicking okay and yes to use these apps. Android suffers from the same thing Windows does. You have to click an extra time or 2 to get a function to set. Even when logging in right now, I may have to push the home button, then swipe up, enter a code, and then click an ok to proceed. On my iphone, I pushed the home button and let my finger rest there and I was in. The majority of system settings and apps have similar unneccessary extra selections and swipes. Con - Speech to text in voice assistants, text message or email is truly unpredictable. I did not truly appreciate how well Apple does this until I stopped using it on this phone. It is really that bad in most real life situations that I want to use it. Big Con - There is an emergency call button (it will dial 911 if you click it) that is badly placed on the unlock screen. I conciously have to avoid hitting that stupid thing 20 to 40 times a day. It's these things that seriously puts iPhone ahead of Samsung in actual usage. I don't have issue with it there, but I need option to move it up on screen where I won't accidentally hit it. I CANNOT BE THE ONLY PERSON THAT HATES THIS. Big Con - Audio volume is ok for music apps but it has an annoying warning about excessive volumes damaging hearing that I want to disable forever and it won't let me. I wouldn't mind seeing the warning and have it go away in a couple of seconds, but you must interact with the warning manually. It is especially irritating because of this next big con. Con - Audio in apps are extremely low when using cabled headsets and at least some on wireless. One example is podcast apps. I have to max out the phone volume and increase my car stereo volume to hear them at the same volume of songs. I use a jabra headset when driving in my car - it's what I used to use with my iPhone and the same issue is present with it. I don't know how many apps are affected, and it may be setting related, but it is an issue out of the box. Con - Videos do not go full screen by flipping screen sideways. In almost every instance iPhone does this by default. It is not the case here - ofen it takes a click or 2 to get that to take. APPS Pro - Multiple app stores to download products. Pro - Because android allows more access to hardware and OS, there are apps for a whole different use than what Apple apps provide. There are many apps to add functionality to the phone. The phone can go into silent mode or reduce its volume anytime you arrive at work for example. You can change your icons from developer default to marbles with the app name listed on them. Meh - Apps are mostly as functional as what IOS equivilent provides, but they aren't streamlined for ease of use. I miss my iPhone apps quite a bit. Con - Most underground app stores likely have viruses in part of their offered apps. Con - Most free apps have ads. Big Con - Unless you are willing to download apps from 'risky' locations, apps without ads are double or triple the price on Apple. I rarely see any paid for app include an ad but I see many paid for apps include apps after purchase. UNTESTED NA - Provided headphones. They are marketed to be $100 street value but I use wireless audio and haven't had the need to test yet. And here are my suggestions for those not used to Android: Don't do as I did. As soon as I got basics down (before I sorted out what I needed to work), I hit the store and got lost in downloading free apps. Before I knew it I had a bunch of apps I didn't remember the function for and I included a launcher that sounded soooo great. And then I figured out what came with those downloads - apps. I was UNHAPPY for a day with an app on my home screen. It was from the launcher by the way. The launcher made me about half crazy trying to work against it. So, if you are stuck in this mode, uninstall, uninstall, uninstall. Airpush Detector is an app that can help identify sources of ads. Stay with Samsung's default touchwiz launcher at first. A launcher gives you a look and feel to the device and determines what functions you can add and remove from the settings. When new to android, touchwiz gives plenty to play with and see what is available and you don't get embedded ads up front. Put the settings app somewhere you can find it easily. By default, the touchwiz launcher gives you a main landing screen that has a google search field and the primary row of phone related apps you see on every screen and one seconadary row of icons that belongs to this landing screen only. When you scroll to the right, the primary row will go with the view and the secondary will go offscreen with the rest of that landing screen. The idea is that the apps on the secondary row are your most frequently used apps along with the main phone apps on the primary row. When you scroll to the screen to the right, that screen is similar to what iPhone screens look like - a grid for placing apps over a chosen background. Each time you scroll to the right you can add one of these grid screens as iPhone does. Something not found on iPhone is an app drawer. It is available from each screen, if you swipe upward on the primary row - there is an up arrow on the primary row indicating the app drawer and you can choose to keep or remove a dedicated button that opens it as well. That drawer has a default copy of every app installed on the phone. If you want one on any of the main screens, press and hold an app inside the app drawer and it will let you pull it upward out of the drawer and it will drop to whatever location you release it at. The copy will remain in the drawer unless you explicitely delete or hide it from there. If you already know you don't like the app drawer concept, you can remove it and the upward screen swipe function will go away and all installed apps will drop onto the those grid screens - just like how iPhone behaves. If you are getting lost looking for apps, go ahead and remove the app drawer now to get closer to the iPhone default setup: Settings app icon > Display > Home screen > Home screen layout. I suggest adding it back at a later date to see if you like it later; once there isn't so much to get used to at once. You likely are used to having a set of apps on the main row of your homescreen from whatever smart phone you come from. Change the row of apps on the primary row to match what you currently use and set those apps up for use. The timeout to black out the screen is way too fast when one is trying to figure out how to configure the phone. Go to settings and change setting not to lock if looking at screen. Bixby can help find - just hold the button and ask to change that setting. If you have no Samsung account, you get to set up your account now. The phone is likely completely unlocked to anyone - you should set up security at some point - I suggest setting the passcode, the fingerprint scanner & the iris scanner. You'll be unlocking the phone once you do this, so decide if you want to do this now or later. The phone comes with 2 app stores installed, they are Samsung Market and Google Playstore. I do not group my apps by developer. I group them by what they do. I suggest you pull the apps out of any folders they are in and put the near each other. I usually look in the Samsung Marker first to see if there is a version of an app developed specifically for this phone and if not, I look in Google Playstore which will be developed for android phones in general. Next get some sort of security on the phone. Most carriers will have some sort of security app pre-installed. Launch it and make sure it is set up. I also installed Avast from one of the app store due to its popularity across android forums. If you are like me, you now have lots of apps running in the background. Press the dedicated recent softkey next to the home button. It is indicated by 2 arrows making a box. You can close them all. Initially, I was getting confused by apps provided to do same thing. Select an app for each function and remove the other app. Messaging clients: I hid Messages (it wont uninstall) & stayed with message+ until I could navigate the OS easily. Browsers: This is a difficult choice. Samsung Internet(purple globe) is designed to be integrated with this phones hardware and shows to be most similar to iPhone's browser for efficiency. In my usage, it blocked sites that Chrome didn't and that I didn't feel were unsafe. If you have no preference and gmail isn't your default form of communicating, I'd disable Chrome (no uninstall available) unless you have same issue I had. If you are tied to gmail, I'd use Chrome and hide/uninstall Internet if it'll let you. If you were using an iPhone before, Samsung has provided an app called Smart Switch to hook to your iPhone with provided hardware in the box (the one with the usb hookup adapter) and it will scan your iPhone and set up your contacts, move your photos if you have room, and find matching apps from the stores. I'd run that at this time. Now go find a free background or theme you like in one of the stores. Select what displays on your always on display. Set up your apps and you should be set to use the phone for a bit. Once you are comfortable using all that you have set up - maybe a day or 2, set up the edge app. You'll have a better idea by that time what might be nice to have on that shortcut. Other Suggestions: Set do not disturb on a schedule (in the settings app) if you get woken up by text messages and such at night. Block blue light with sunset (in the settings app) - supposedly reduces affects of phone screen on your sleep. Set finger scanner to swipe down to pull notifications open - honestly I dont use it, but go ahead - it's kind of cool. Note: You cannot delete apps that are sitting on the primary apps bar - you must relocate it to the grid. Depending on app, it may not allow uninstall, but you may be able to disable and/or hide. Worst case, make a folder and hide all unused apps in it. After a few days, research what a widget is and set one up on one of your screens - Maybe a calendar or a clock. After a few more days, research what "edge" apps are available to you. Some apps that I'm using: Ad source finder- air push detector (suggested by coworker) Downloaded & changed keyboard to GBoard (suggested by forums and tested well against others I tried) Ad blocker - Crystal Ad blocker (can't remember why I chose this) Pw manager - Dashlane shows up top in many reviews (you have to engage the app to set up the pw) Browser - Puffin pro (free has ads) for speed of use - but it has a drawback of memory consumption compared to other browsers Chat client - Textra (mainly testing from high reviews) Widget - I'm using a widget called Month to put a calendar on one of my grid screens.
Wife recently purchased thru ATT authorized store. She loved the look and feel of the 8+ and at first, it worked great. However, within a few days it stopped working, displaying no network available error code on screen. Problem is, we were at home and my phone, an older Samsung S4 Active, also with ATT was working so there definitely was ATT network service available. Turned the phone on and off a few times, still no signal. Finally, using my phone, called ATT customer service. Forty five mins later with numerous instructions from ATT Agt, using my phone, finally managed to get her phone up and running with Agt stating he had found an error on the part of the store sales clerks initial registration process. Ok, fine. Fast forward 3-4 days later, same problem + phone was shutting itself off for no reason. Back to customer service using her phone this time. It would not allow her to make any outside phone calls or text messages, giving same no network available error code, yet it would allow her to dial customer service using 611, however. Another long conversation with ATT phone rep again who, this time suggested taking phone back to store and have the sim card replaced. Phone was now 16 days old since purchase. Did exactly that and store clerk changed out sim card. Still didn't work. Tried 2nd sim card on same visit and it didn't work either. Store clerk then erased electronic serial number in their system, re-typed same ser # back in, reinserted 2nd sim card, rebooted phone and it finally worked but only for about 4 days before same problem occurred again. Problem is, she had to go out of town to a funeral and needed a dependable phone. She was so frustrated by now, she had ATT store switch sim card back over to her old iphone 5, which at least had always been dependable, if not very exciting. Thus she was safe on the trip, at least as far as having a phone she could count on again. When she returned home from funeral a few days later, she immediately called ATT customer service, once again explaining her problem. Another 30 min conversation and they now wanted to send her a refurbished phone replacement for a phone she was paying a new phone charge for, not a refurb price. She refused the refurb and the ATT rep finally told her he was making note in file, recommending the selling ATT store take it back. She also called Samsung directly and their rep told her to take it back to store and have them do a factory reset before sending it in to Samsung for warranty repair. Samsung rep was sure that would more than likely fix the problem. So she took the S8+ phone back to ATT store where she bought it, demanding a new phone, since they couldn't seem to fix it. They refused and in stead, sent her sixty miles down the road to an Atlanta Corporate ATT store, the Mgr of the selling store stating he was sure the Corporate store would replace it, what with the ATT phone rep recommending same. Corporate store mgr. was indignant, rude and emphatically refused, stating the selling store should replace it. By now, after several ATT dog and pony shows, failure on their part to do the right thing, my wife had had enough, drove sixty miles back to selling store, dumped the non working S8+ phone as well as the Samsung 8in Tablet they had also talked her into buying with the S8+, demanded a refund for all and a receipt for the returned equipment. ATT store clerk didn't have the authority to do an immediate credit, stating she would have to get the owner to do it over the next few days. Seven days go by with no credit on her acct so she now drives back to store, talks with the clerk again, who immediately credits her acct and credit card for all eqpt. Store clerk admits that this was 3rd Samsung S8+ returned within the last week for similar problems. Meanwhile, a few days later a Samsung factory rep comes by this ATT authorized store, poo poo's the apparent S8+'s problems, stating that it was just probably a bad batch of S8 phones, with no other explanation. Well, now my wife feels pretty much snake bit by Samsung and ATT over this uncalled for ordeal and is in all probability going to change to Verizon or some other carrier and I am sure, by now you have surmised she will not be purchasing a Samsung anything. She's too scared of them and what appears to be a lack of current quality control on Samsung's part compared to their good reputation in the past. Having been an ATT customer for more than ten yrs, she was very surprised and disappointed to learn of ATT's apathy and argumentative nature when failing to back up their phone with proper service after the sale. Additionally, I have been an ATT cell phone customer on my line since 1989(formerly BellSouth) and we are long time Direct TV customers. After seeing how she was treated I am also considering looking elsewhere for a different carrier and equipment, after continuously being their customer for over 28 yrs. Any company and any carrier can have problems. It's how they handle those problems that either insures brand loyalty or causes you to look elsewhere. All they had to do was to do the right thing to start with and give her a new phone that worked. Having refused to do that, what can we possibly expect from them in the future. We are currently paying almost $300.00 a month to ATT for our phone and Direct TV service. Even that did not motivate them to replace the phone, a phone which at the time was less than a month old. We sincerely hope your experience with both ATT and the Samsung S8+ phone is a better one than hers was. My phone is overdue for an upgrade but living thru her experience causes me great pause in considering any new Samsung product, inspite of fact that I have had my S4 Active for several yrs with no problems. I have never looked at another cell phone network provider in all my yrs of ATT service but I now feel compelled to at least see what they can provide.
Let me get this out of the way first. I know there is a ton of people of who care about the removable battery or SD card slot, fortunately I am not one of them. Second I purchased this phone from BestBuy and not through Amazon so I can’t speak too much about their service. I bought the Note 5 to replace my aging Note 4. I was bouncing back and forth between my Note 4 and IPhone 6 Plus. The Note 4 was my main daily phone (my work horse) and the IPhone was my battery champion when I knew I was going to a conference or somewhere that I wouldn’t readily have access to a charging source. I was honestly surprised on the evening when this phone was released that it was sold out pretty much across the city of Boston since so many people online were making such a big stink about the lack of removable battery and SD card slot, I figured be able to walk in and pick one up no problem. When I finally was able to get my hands on the Note 5, I have to say I loved the look and feel of the Note 4 but there is no competition here. I was blown away by how premium the Note 5 feels and in my opinion is on par with IPhone 6 Plus and possibly even out does it in that department. Here are a few of the reasons why I love this beast of a phone. Camera: The Note 5 has a 16 megapixel camera that features OIS and 4K video recording. The day I got this phone I was on my way to Arlington, VA for a conference but due to some last minute changes the conferences was basically cancelled and since I was already there figured I would do some sightseeing and take some pictures with my shiny new phone. The daylight shots were stunning, I thought the hype over of the Galaxy S6 camera was maybe overblown but once I used the Note 5’s camera I got to see what all the fuss was about and I have to say Samsung has done a fantastic job simplifying the camera UI and making it almost IPhone simply to use. The double click of the home button works amazing fast. I am not a professional photographer but it’s nice to play with Pro Mode even though I have no clue what I am doing. 4K videos look amazing, just be aware that it will eat up the storage on your phone fairly quickly. There is no competition between this camera and my IPhone so no need to compare them. Design: The Note 5 has a glass front and back with aluminum sides, this is really nothing new since the IPhone 4 & 4s, the Sony Xperia phones and even to certain extent the Nexus 4 all had these same designs but I don’t care this is best feeling phone I have ever held and this definitely one of the best looking phones that Samsung ever made possibly just behind the Galaxy S6 Edge Plus. My only complaints with the design are that its slippery, I picked up the phone but didn’t really take it out of the box until I got to the Airport since I was running late and had no time to goof off but as soon as I took it out of the box it immediately slipped out my hand, my heart stopped for second but luckily it landed on my travel bag. As soon as I landed in DC I bought a case for it which it’s unfortunate to have to cover up such a gorgeous piece of tech, it’s the equivalent of having a super-hot girlfriend who always wears cloths that ten times too big for her. The other complaint that was also solved by the case is the finger prints. I bought the white version so it’s not too big of issue on mines but if you prefer the black version be prepared to carry a cloth around with you at all times to wipe it down. One other small complaint that I have is way is it that American carries only offer black and white as the color options but there is a space grey and silver option as well? S-Pen: If you’re a avid Note user like myself then you probably know all the amazing things that the S-pen can do at this point and there is little need for me to recap but there are a few new tricks that I love, when the screen is off if you pull out the pen its activates the screen in this really cool black and white mode, that allows you to take a really quick note without turning on the screen. This feature is way more useful than you might imagine. My favorite is screen capture for longer pagers, copy and sign long PDF’s directly on my phone. In my opinion this is the best productivity phone that you can buy. Screen: The 2K screen on the Note 5 seems similar to the Note 4 which is a good thing. They are bought bright and vibrant. They both have a ultra-bright mode for direct sunlight but this mode is only accessible screen brightness is set to auto. Watching HD videos on this phone are amazing, I purchased a movie to watch on my flight back to Boston the person next to me commented to me how awesome the screen looked and couldn’t believe how fair phones have come over the last few years and even took the time point out the screen to his wife. The screen has four modes that you can choose from and they all range from very vibrant to tone down colors. Everything Else: In past Samsung phones Touchwiz made a mess of things but this time around Samsung did a great job of toning things down and optimizing the phone for processor. This has resulted in not only the fastest Samsung phone I’ve ever used but a phone that is closely comparable to the experience that you get on an IPhone. They did remove the IR blaster which I was bummed about but I got over it fairly quickly. I love the new themes that you can put on your phone that change the entire look and feel of the phone. There are hundreds of downloadable themes and it only takes a few seconds to apply them to the phone. Lastly the Note 5’s battery has smaller capacity than the Note 4’s but from what I have seen so far, its last easily a full day, you won’t get two days but honestly in this day and age I can’t think of a single reason or what I’d be doing that I need a battery to last two full days, I have portable battery packs, wireless chargers, fast chargers and car chargers. I just need it last my full work day which it easily does. Conclusion: I know there is a ton of people out there who are upset about the exclusion of the removable battery and SD card slot but in my opinion this is easily the best work that Samsung has ever done with their phones. In my opinion this is best phone that Samsung has ever released. If you like premium phones, that do a little more than just be big phones like the Nexus 6 or the IPhone 6 Plus, give this phone a look, it’s definitely worth a look.
Wow, this phone was a huge disappointment. There are so many flaws with this phone, so I will break my review down into several areas. Large Screen I initially bought this because I wanted to have a phone with a large screen. In that area, the phone does not disappoint. It is easier to read and less of a strain on the eyes than my smaller-by-comparison iPhone 5s. So in this area, the Note 5 is a big winner, hence 2 stars. Camera The camera is superior to those on my previous phones, iPhone 5s being the latest... in quality that is. The focus is so bad I would almost call it broken. Other cameras I had would take relatively close pictures. Anything closer than a meter/yard gives me trouble and the image keeps going in and out of focus. Not to mention the camera often gets stuck in "focus mode" where it wants you to adjust the focus instead of being able to take a picture. This is really annoying, and happens a lot for me. Going back to the quality, this phone takes GREAT selfies. Yes, the caps are justified. While I don't take many, the ones I do take have some kind of softening filter or something that makes your skin look better in the images. It seems to erase small blemishes, tired eye bags, etc. It won't make you look 50 years younger, but it definitely makes a difference. My rating: great camera, annoying focus problems. Touch Screen and Side Buttons This this is sensitive. I can nudge any button and it usually goes off. The initial unlock screen is annoying. It takes me 3-4 attempts sometimes to access the phone. The hold option on the phone app is poorly placed to say the least. If you touch your face to the phone, you have a good chance of hitting the hold option by accident. You may thing something is wrong, so anytime things go silent, you'll look at the phone and wonder what is going on. The green color will be grey, and you'll see the phone is on hold. Unless you are taking and transferring calls for a business, then a hold option isn't so useful. Mute works wonders, and you can auto-hold calls when another is coming in. The text keyboard, for a phone this size, is really bad and inaccurate. I could type almost flawlessly on my smaller iPhone 5s. On this thing I constantly misspell words. Which brings us to... Auto-correct I turned it off after a week. I don't like the last word I type corrected to something inappropriate AFTER I click the send button. The suggestions were often wrong, and sometimes even when I clicked the right suggestion, the wrong word came up. And don't even think about using slang, it'll auto-correct you into all sorts of things. A suggestion only option would be nice, but for some reason it didn't work for me. That's a pity too, because spell check is something I use a lot when I email. Connectivity This is one of the phone's biggest flaws. I'm on my second Note 5 in 6 months, because the first one had such terrible connectivity issues from day one. I have tried it in multiple states, rural and urban areas, wooded and open areas, you get the idea. The connectivity is inferior to all of my past phones. I often lose calls over 30 minutes, and drop a few calls a week. Sometimes, your voice simply doesn't transmit anymore and you are forced to hangup. This often happens when using the hold option. The Stylus Unless you are an artist, this thing is a terrible idea. You remove it by pushing on it, so if you keep this in your pocket, purse, bag, etc. it may accidentally release the stylus... which also opens a memo program for you to write on. Multiple stores have told me that if you put the stylus back in wrong you can mess it up, so I don't really see a point to the thing. Again, if you really want to do art on your phone, maybe it works for you. This should have been an optional trait. Battery Life It's like an electric car... you'll probably have to charge it every night. It's not that big of a deal, but other phones I had got 2-3 days, so, yeah. Not a deal breaker though. And for the record, I always close my apps, and have 2 non-factory apps on my phone. Wireless Connection This phone LOVES finding wireless options and suggesting them to you... in the middle of texting, blocking you from typing until you acknowledge its great discovery. It also loves to, by default, connect to unsecured networks. If you live anywhere in the vicinity of people who may like to get into your phone (which is most anywhere), this is a really bad idea. I had to disconnect my searching feature because of this, and it's annoying to have to turn it on every time I drive between home and other places I have a secure connection. Conclusion Find another option. The big screen and camera are nice. The intermittent connectivity, touch screen issues, hold option problems, wireless connection finder, low battery life, stylus, and bad auto-correct are too much of a hassle to recommend this phone. There are many other fine options out there, so do yourself a favor and research some other phone models.
The Last Samsung Product I Will Ever Purchase! Prior to this terrible warrantee experience I am having I liked Samsung products. I have several in my home. However, when something goes wrong and you need to send the product in for service and repair, good luck! I purchased a Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge earlier in the year after being a loyal iPhone user since the 3GS. When I made the switch I was pleasantly surprised how much I liked the phone. It worked flawlessly for about six months until a firmware update they release trashed the phone. Took it to a local Samsung rep. at Best Buy and he tried for a day and a half to replace the operating system with no luck. He said that it is still under warranty so send it in and they’ll fix it. Sounded great, however. I called their customer service number and they stared a claim, she took my information down and told me it will take around eleven days to get it back, then issued me a UPS label. I sent the phone off to them and they send me an email on June 27th confirming that they received the phone and issued me a ticket number. So far so good right? Well after the first week when by I decided to check the status of my repair through the Repair Self Tracking portal they have and was surprised to see that there was nothing in their system about my repair claim. Though to myself, that’s weird. On July 13th, after thirteen business days later of not hearing anything I called them again to check the status. They said that they were done with it but I gave them a P.O. Box address and that they can only delver to a physical address. Oh, ok I get it, a mistake. However, when the person who originally took my information shouldn’t she have told me that they required a physical address? Still, not too upset. They told me that they would ship it immediately and I would have it in 1-4 business days. Great? Not so fast. Five business days later on July 20th I still had not received my phone so I called again. The Samsung rep I talked to this time said pretty much the same thing that the last rep told me and that it has not been shipped. Now I’m irritated. I told him that they had the correct address now so what’s the problem? He put me on hold and checked with the repair shop and a Anne told him that they would overnight it today and I would receive it tomorrow. This is where it gets really shady. I asked this person to please send me an email stating our conversation and confirming that the phone was being shipped overnight. He told me that they do not have the capability to send emails. What? Samsung can’t send emails? I was pissed off so I asked to speak to his supervisor. He put me on hold for a really long time and came back to tell me that his supervisor “Graham” will not speak with me and that he doesn’t have the capability to send an email either. Now I’m furious. I’m being lied to and this is getting really shady. I’m not sure they even have my phone at this point. He put me on hold again and talked to Anne again who told him that when they sip it later today, I would receive an email stating that it shipped. I was not happy and expressed it vividly. I then went on the web trying to find another number to contact or call someone above them all with no luck. So what I found is that if these people want to screw you over, there’s no one else to get involved or help. What a predicament. Later the same day (July 20th) I called again and talked to another representative name Angela. She checked the status and let me know that it shows on her end that my phone is scheduled to be shipped overnight and I should have tomorrow. I wasn’t holding my breath at this point. We’ll here I am now, today is July 26th and yes, still no phone. I am beyond upset and don’t know if I will ever get my phone back. I’m thinking I am going to have to get an attorney involved which will likely cost more than a new phone. I can tell you this, if this can happen to your phone, it can happen to all Samsung products. I will be switching back to an iPhone here shortly if I don’t get my phone by this Friday. I caution you to ever think about buying another product from Samsung again.
Update: After a couple of months with the device I am more thrilled to have switched than I was before. It's not a perfect device but it definitely deserves 5 stars for the amount of functionality you get. Here are a few things I've learned over my short time with the phone: -Battery life takes some time to "even out". The OS "learns" how you use the device over time (generally a couple of weeks) and puts installed apps that you don't use to sleep until you actually need them. In the Settings menu there is a battery saver option that you can have set to off, medium, or max. Starting out with the saver set to off it says I would get 24 hours of battery life. Now, it says 34 hours with the saver off, and 122 hours at max settings. I did an extreme test where I turned every radio on the device on turn the display to max resolution and brightness and turned the audio up to about 50%, I turned the Always on Display on. Then I proceeded to play music, and long YouTube videos, do some web surfing, and played some games. The phone lasted for 17H and 25min with 7H and 27m screen on time and it still had 13% battery power left. Enough said. -The Samsung keyboard sucks,, mainly because of the predictive text and auto correction. Just use Swiftkey, which is awesome. -The Samsung email app is nice. No real complaints there. I chose it over all other email clients for now. -The security features on this device are spectacular!. Even after formatting the phone from the bootloader it would not let me set it up as a new device without my old credentials. The Iris scanner, fingerprint ID, and Face Recognition are solid and work wonderfully. Some people want to complain about the location of the fingerprint sensor but I have long fingers and I have zero problems with it. Secure Folders is a welcomed addition to the security lineup and is useful for putting certain apps or folders under lock and key. Samsung Pay is also a great feature because it doesn't rely on NFC and doesn't use your original card numbers. I always have NFC off and I'm using an Otterbox Defender case and Samsung Pay works every time. -Bluetooth is the main battery killer believe it or not. Both my Samsung Gear S3 Frontier smartwatch and the Galaxy Note 8 suffer from this problem. Having bluetooth on drains the battery quickly compared to all other features and settings minus maybe display brightness. Starting out, this will kill battery life but over a month or so it will level out depending on your usage. Most of the time with the phone connected to my watch I will get home from work with about 78-84% battery life. Starting out it was closer to 65-73%. With it off I can leave with 85-93% easy. I'm hoping they fix some of this when Samsung finally releases Android 8.0 Oreo for the device. -You get use to the single speaker. The Note 8 only has one speaker from which you can hear music or loud speaker during a phone call. It is easily muffled and admittingly not as loud as the iPhone 8 Plus speakers. I do wish there were two speakers on the Note 8 but it is plenty loud enough with the one. -Screen protectors are hard to find if you have an Otterbox Defender case. You get lift and a drop in screen sensitivity A LOT. But there are options out there that work just fine. Just be sure to absolutely CENTER the protector on the device. The first one I got left an air pocket right down the middle of the device screen that you could only see under certain lighting conditions. The second one just sucked to be honest. The screen sensitivity just dropped to almost nothing even when there was not an air pocket and the protector had full contact with the screen minus the left and right edge. The third one is a keeper, although I do notice a slight drop in screen sensitivity it works well enough to keep the phone responsive. My point is here, that the curved screen on the Note 8 does pose a problem at least for those who use a thick rugged case, but with a few hours (or days) of mind numbing searching, a little blood, and some sweat, you can find something that works. My original review is below: I shelved my iPhone 8 Plus for this and don't regret it at all. I've been using the iPhone since the iPhone 3G and have loved the finished polish of ios and Apple devices in general. Why did I get the Galaxy Note 8? Two main reasons: 1) More bang for my buck-I spent less on the Galaxy Note 8 but got so much more in the way of features and specs. Whereas the 8 Plus was lacking so many common features found in many of the top end phones today, I feel the Note 8 has gotten me back up to date with the latest tech available for smart devices. I essentially got everything the iPhone X and 8 Plus offer in one package and for less. The build quality is excellent and I'm not restricted to just Samsung products to get the most out of my device. I have this phone in a Otterbox Defender Series case and wireless charging works fine every time. Face ID, Iris Scanning, Fingerprint ID, and Pin Codes all work without a problem (at least for me). It comes with Android 7.1.1 modified by Samsung. It's fast and fluid and because it's Android, heavily modifiable (unlike Apple anything). Yes, the phone only comes with 64GB, but yes it is possible to put up to 256GB of memory in the device and be golden. If you don't want to put 256, put 128, or 64 or however much your wallet can afford, which leads me to the second point, 2) Options! So many options! I've dealt with android before so I know most of this has to do with the operating system, but there is so much you can do with this device in the way of customizing the performance,, maintaining battery life, personalizing the interface, and increasing productivity to your hearts content. Samsung has several preinstalled apps on the device that are in fact quite useful, but if you don't want them, uninstall them and that's it. No penalty, no harm, no foul. Samsung also has a Themes app that makes it easy to download both free and paid themes for the device. The complexity of the device (and of Android in general) is not for everyone. There is a lot you can tweak and alter to get all that you would want out of the device. Of course there are plenty of presets in various categories to help the casual user streamline the customization process too, so there is no need to be shy. Overall I really enjoy this smartphone and am happy to use it as my daily driver. Battery life is acceptable ( I work a 10 hour shift in the mornings and when I come home in the evenings I'm normally somewhere between 77-83 percent battery power. This is after spending the day checking emails, maybe making a call or two, and watching Youtube videos during my breaks. Also the phone is paired with a Samsung Gear S3 smart watch (also awesome, but not perfect for my tastes). I'm using this device on Straight Talk's AT&T network and I get 84-87 Mbps download speeds while in a metal hangar at work. Whenever Samsung actually releases the next version in their Galaxy series I will be looking with great intention to upgrade if possible.
🔫Note: This review will be updated numerous times as the phone ages. And be jealous of my green laser gun. Service Provider: STRAIGHT TALK Apple only user (7 years) BACKGROUND: My iPhone 5s went to poo 💩(For the second time in 7 years I lost an iPhone). Each time the "geniuses" told me my phone was not repairable and I had to buy a new phone. AND both times it was the charge connector that just went completely crap one day. Great. Looking back I guess I was part of the many brainwashed sheep with the one track mind thinking Apple leads all. But in reality, they are stuck in neutral. Since they lost Steve Jobs, no one has stepped up to be that Willy Wonka of cutting edge ideas and showmanship. And its blatantly obvious to me now. Oh and guess what? They now make the headphones use the same failure prone adapter on all new iPhones (meaning you cannot wire charge and listen to headphones), so I finally decided to stop eating rotten Apples. And I decided to Hitchhike a Ride on a Galaxy S9. Now I know you'll say a 5s is older and its comparing apples and oranges (that pun was unintentional🤮...my apoligies), but my friend has an iPhone X and let me try it. It wasn't that much different of an Apple experience. And it was 400 more than this phone. (I apologize for my overt digressions, but phones are a huge investment and I try to make my reviews thorough and whatever the perfect opposite of boring is...I hope.) Day 1: I'm really $%@!$& nervous. Did I make the right decision? I'm a textbook overthinker. I went without a phone for 9 days trying to decide. And here I am. Waiting on a refurbished Galaxy S9. Finally Delivered. First box is the typical smaller Amazon box. Second inside is a small white box. Very simple worry-free packaging. Inside that box was the phone, A/C adaptor, charge cord, and a paper with quickstart and APN help. Also a card from Amazon saying contact the seller first with a problem blah blah Charlie Brown teacher voice blah blah blah. So I have made a few certified refurbished electronic purchases in the past and they worked out great, so I was not as apprehensive as maybe a refurb greenhorn might be. But listen. Phone is in hand now. And this phone is stunning. Immaculate. I went over it and it looks COMPLETELY brand new. The screen is perfect. Don't be afraid. Jump in the water. Buy refurbished. Ok...so here is my first negative, but its petty really. I bought the "lilac" colored phone because I love light colored purples like lilac and lavender. Only this isn't really either. I'd call this more of a pinker color with a hint of purple, but its still sleek and nice and can be covered up with a case if needed. Ok so physical condition out of the box I'd give a solid grade A+ Now for the SIM card. Again I am a Straight Talk user (looooove them...4 years strong now). My iPhone has been tanked and off for about 9 days. I popped out the SIM card from the rotten phone, popped out the Samsung SIM tray and dropped in the SIM, pushing the tray back flush. Powered the phone on. Without going through every single step, the setup was so easy and seamless. It automatically found my service provider, so I would say this is pretty much as close to plug and play as you can get. So awesome. I am falling hard like Pete for Ariana for this phone... Well...I've been playing with the phone for a few hours now. I cannot put it down. So many things are infinitely better than Apple. I'm going to list a few and stop the review for Day 1. And if you made it this far, peace and love neighbor. Happy phone hunting. You're beautiful🌞🌜⛱🌚🌟 1. Customization: THEMES! I can't stop trying these out. They change the sounds and wallpapers and App icons and probably other cool stuff I don't realize all at once. They are so cool. Text messages look different. And the wallpapers can be animated. Lock screens can be videos. I am admittedly geeking a little. Android systems let you change soooooooo much. And I am a customization freak. Not only can you choose from hundreds of free and paid themes on the Google Play store, but you can choose from so many different fonts as well (and you can choose from tons for free and money the same way). You can set the order of so many things, it's just the coolest. Oh and here is a great one. For the OCD users like me, who hated when you couldn't delete an apple app, you still have those on Android you cannot delete as well. BUT YOU CAN HIDE THEM! 2. The button clicks are addictive. It feels like you are pushing a button when its the bare screen. I have a screen protector on AND and phone case and it's still extremely responsive. 3. The swiping motions aren't that different from Apple. I'm navigating like a pro. I'm sure there are how-to videos I need to watch to learn all of the shortcuts, but I'm doing just fine. Ok. Enough for now. I'm jonesing to play with the phone waaaaaay more. Ask any questions you want. I will answer all I can. I will update this review as I see the need. Peace and Love, The Muffin Man
Prior to this terrible warrantee experience I am having I liked Samsung products. I have several in my home. However, when something goes wrong and you need to send the product in for service and repair, good luck! I purchased a Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge earlier in the year after being a loyal iPhone user since the 3GS. When I made the switch I was pleasantly surprised how much I liked the phone. It worked flawlessly for about six months until a firmware update they release trashed the phone. Took it to a local Samsung rep. at Best Buy and he tried for a day and a half to replace the operating system with no luck. He said that it is still under warranty so send it in and they’ll fix it. Sounded great, however. I called their customer service number and they stared a claim, she took my information down and told me it will take around eleven days to get it back, then issued me a UPS label. I sent the phone off to them and they send me an email on June 27th confirming that they received the phone and issued me a ticket number. So far so good right? Well after the first week when by I decided to check the status of my repair through the Repair Self Tracking portal they have and was surprised to see that there was nothing in their system about my repair claim. Though to myself, that’s weird. On July 13th, after thirteen business days later of not hearing anything I called them again to check the status. They said that they were done with it but I gave them a P.O. Box address and that they can only delver to a physical address. Oh, ok I get it, a mistake. However, when the person who originally took my information shouldn’t she have told me that they required a physical address? Still, not too upset. They told me that they would ship it immediately and I would have it in 1-4 business days. Great? Not so fast. Five business days later on July 20th I still had not received my phone so I called again. The Samsung rep I talked to this time said pretty much the same thing that the last rep told me and that it has not been shipped. Now I’m irritated. I told him that they had the correct address now so what’s the problem? He put me on hold and checked with the repair shop and a Anne told him that they would overnight it today and I would receive it tomorrow. This is where it gets really shady. I asked this person to please send me an email stating our conversation and confirming that the phone was being shipped overnight. He told me that they do not have the capability to send emails. What? Samsung can’t send emails? I was pissed off so I asked to speak to his supervisor. He put me on hold for a really long time and came back to tell me that his supervisor “Graham” will not speak with me and that he doesn’t have the capability to send an email either. Now I’m furious. I’m being lied to and this is getting really shady. I’m not sure they even have my phone at this point. He put me on hold again and talked to Anne again who told him that when they sip it later today, I would receive an email stating that it shipped. I was not happy and expressed it vividly. I then went on the web trying to find another number to contact or call someone above them all with no luck. So what I found is that if these people want to screw you over, there’s no one else to get involved or help. What a predicament. Later the same day (July 20th) I called again and talked to another representative name Angela. She checked the status and let me know that it shows on her end that my phone is scheduled to be shipped overnight and I should have tomorrow. I wasn’t holding my breath at this point. We’ll here I am now, today is July 26th and yes, still no phone. I am beyond upset and don’t know if I will ever get my phone back. I’m thinking I am going to have to get an attorney involved which will likely cost more than a new phone. I can tell you this, if this can happen to your phone, it can happen to all Samsung products. I will be switching back to an iPhone here shortly if I don’t get my phone by this Friday. I caution you to ever think about buying another product from Samsung again.
I’ve read review after glowing review about Samsung’s current flagship phone, the Galaxy S7 Edge, and it makes me wonder if I’m using the same phone that they are. I know when a new product gets reviewed, the experience is different because they only try it out for a few days before writing about it. To be fair, I rather enjoyed my new phone for the first month or so as well. But now that I’m a few months in, it’s really starting to piss me off. It’s almost to the point where I want to use it as a wireless hotspot for my old, deactivated iPhone 5S. Here are the eleven biggest (yes, there’s more than eleven!) pain points I’m experiencing with my Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge: BEAUTIFUL BUT HIGHLY FRAGILE These phones are engineered to break – both your heart and the phone itself. I cannot say this emphatically enough – Gorilla Glass is not a selling point, because it provides no protection for the delicate, breakable design of this phone. The S7 Edge has glass on the front and the back, and it will shatter at the slightest ding. We know. One of our two identical phones shattered within a week without a case. This must be protected at all times by a sturdy, impact-resistant case like an Otterbox. That’s a shame for a phone that’s designed like a piece of art. BIG BATTERY, MEET POWER-HUNGRY PHONE The Galaxy S7 Edge may tout one of the largest batteries on the smartphone market, but it does little good when it’s paired with such a power-guzzling phone. I routinely – really, at least five days a week – go from 100% charge when I wake up to less than 50% by noon. (And that’s on a good day.) This isn’t a two day phone. If it’s a one day phone, I probably forgot it at home all day. The one saving grace is the built-in Quick Charge 2.0 capabilities, but I’ve found myself creating a network of strategically placed QC 2.0 charging banks at my most visited spots at home, at work and in my car. I even have a power bank six times bigger than the S7’s battery that I carry most of the time. STORAGE SPACE: 32 GB IS THE NEW 16 Several years ago, I got my first smartphone and my first Android phone – Sprint’s HTC Evo. I experienced a pain back then similar to one of my biggest pains right now, which is the frustrating lack of on-board storage. The Evo rocked a staggering 1 GB of on-board storage and came with an 8 GB SD card. The problem was that so little of the on-board storage was available for apps, and not all apps supported running off an SD card. It was a constant barrage of “out of space” errors. Forget about the all the media we download or generate. There should be adequate room for the apps we use. This is, after all, a smartphone. I’ve used a 16 GB iPhone for two years, and it’s criminal that Apple had such a small phone on the market for so long. One would think the 32 GB of space on the Galaxy S7 Edge would be serviceable, but I’m getting the same space crunch that I experienced with the Evo all over again. I’ve scaled my installed apps back to the bare minimum that I use on a somewhat regular basis, which is about 150. I don’t know if that is a low or high number on average, but that’s me. There are 109 of those that must live on the phone, including all the non-removable bloatware apps from Samsung and Verizon. I’ve moved all 40 or so apps that can be moved to the SD card. I store all photos and videos on the SD card. I’m still under 1 GB of free space, which is rendering the phone as a whole laggy and unstable. This is not an issue unique to this phone. Most of the phones on the market are singular 32 GB models. There is the “adoptable storage” feature of Android Marshmallow that could ease some of these issues, but Samsung doesn’t allow its use on this phone (at least, without some clever workarounds). APPS DON’T STAY PUT This is also more of an Android frustration, but exacerbated by the limited storage issues of the phone. I’ve worked so diligently to move all eligible apps to the SD card to keep my precious free space in tact. But whenever an app updates, it moves the app back to the internal memory, requiring me to move the app all over again. This is not a speedy process either, and there are certain offenders like Facebook’s portfolio of bloated apps that update all… the… time. Last night, I had 9 apps auto-update on me, which gave me a lot of work to do during breakfast this morning. Is the phone really smart if it can’t remember where to store an app after it updates? THE CAMERA IS FRUSTRATINGLY UN-SNAPPY Part of the appeal of a smartphone for most – and 90% for me – is having a good camera with you at all times. A good percentage of the decision to do this phone instead of another iPhone was the quality of the camera, especially in low light. Unfortunately, the camera is anything but reliable. In fact, it’s downright infuriating in critical situations where I need a responsive camera at the right moment, whether that’s a family picture or something for work. The camera has been, more often than not, totally unresponsive to taps of the shutter, and when it is responsive, there is often a delay causing blurry, unintended results. Then there’s the video performance. Dropped frames are present on every video, no matter what resolution I shoot with. There is a noticeable delay between pressing “record” and the start of shooting, and there is almost always a delay between audio and video at the end of the recording. Other apps also seem to have negative effects on the performance of the camera. I would often get glitching and sync issues when I had Google Now set to listen in any app. Disabling that helped, but the performance of the camera is wholly disappointing, so much so that I now often carry my old deactivated iPhone 5S with me every day solely as a reliable pocket camera. IT’S A HOT MESS The Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge is possibly the best phone ever for people who have cold hands. It’s gets warm a lot, and overheats several times a day, in a wide variety of everyday situations. When it goes into its “Cooling Down” mode, performance severely degrades, which adds to the frustration of the experience. I get the times when it goes into this protective mode if the sun shines on it while it’s in my car mount, but not when it’s just sitting on my desk charging. I currently have it in a Spigen Neo Hybrid case, which has a reasonably thin silicone backing. It’s not thick enough to cause heating issues like this. So as a phone it’s not so great, but as a hot plate for keeping your coffee warm, it’s certainly capable. STARTING OVER This thing reboots a lot on its own at random (inopportune) times, or at least it thinks it does. I can’t quite make out a pattern for why it does this, but sometimes it will just up and restart itself. Then there’s the times where it seems to restart itself without going through all the motions. I’ll try to unlock it with my fingerprint – also a process that’s nowhere near as snappy as they lead you to believe – and it tells me that I must use my pattern unlock because it just restarted. Although, it didn’t. That aside, you’d think that the performance would be better because it’s starting up fresh after a reboot, but you’d be wrong. TOUCHWIZ – AFTER CHEEZ WHIZ, NOW MY LEAST FAVORITE WIZ Everybody knows by this point that Samsung’s TouchWiz interface is pretty terrible. I agree. It kills performance, is pretty ugly and not that customizable. So there’s not much more to say about it. Luckily you can do something about it by installing a third-party launcher. I use Nova Launcher, which I mostly recommend. There’s so much you can do with it and it removes a lot of the friction from the user experience. My only qualm with it is some of the icons of apps on the SD card disappear when you reboot the phone. You can back up your layouts to help with that problem though. ALWAYS ON, ALWAYS KIND OF USELESS One of the biggest selling points of the Galaxy S7 and other phones of this generation is an always on display. The novelty of having a limited display of information like the clock, calendar or notifications seems like a super-handy thing, but in everyday use it’s not that big of a deal. In fact, the cost/benefit ratio considering the battery drain on an already battery-hungry device makes it seem like a non-starter. If there were more customization you could do to what’s displayed, it might be worthwhile, but the options are pretty limited. Most often, I keep it turned off. It’s a feature with unrealized potential, for certain. CUTTING EDGE? Speaking of features with unrealized potential, let’s talk about the Edge. You know, the curved (but barely) edges of the screen that offer convenience in ways the iPhone can’t? Well, I don’t think I’ve used these features more than a handful of times in the few months I’ve owned this phone, and I don’t see that changing. The Edge Panels are not all that useful, at least any more so than getting to the intended places faster than just navigating there through regular means. There are a couple things like a ruler that are handy in extremely limited circumstances, but not enough to justify going with the Edge over the regular S7. In fact, the main reason I went with the Edge was the slightly bigger screen. That said, it’s really not great for watching full-screen content, as there is some color degradation on – and due to – the edges when watching brightly-colored images. There’s no reason for the curve except maybe seeing color strobing when you receive a notification and the phone is face-down, but with an always on display and wireless charging, I never keep it face down. If anything, the curve exists to make the phone more fragile, and it does that remarkably well. SAMSUNG PAY – NO, SAMSUNG, PAY MORE ATTENTION TO SUPPORTING THIS FEATURE I was really looking forward to the day I could leave my wallet in my pocket and use my phone to pay for stuff. Samsung was looking forward to that day too, and has offered multiple incentives to get people using the feature. Unfortunately, they’ve done an astoundingly-poor job of getting banks on-board to support Samsung Pay. I have a lot of cards in my wallet (from both local and national institutions), and I don’t think a single one is supported. I’d love to use Samsung Pay someday, if they ever let me. There was a brief, shining moment where I did actually use the app though. They started allowing you to store membership and loyalty cards in the app. These cards flood my keychain and my wallet, so I was thrilled to be able to add them to my phone. Certain ones like my Costco card are natively supported, while others like my library cards worked by manual addition. I got them all programmed in and ready to go, and I used it once at a grocery store, much to my delight. Then I went the second time to a grocery store with famously poor cell reception and my cards would not work whatsoever. Shortly thereafter, an update occurred and my entire portfolio of cards disappeared, never to be seen again. That was the end of that experiment. IN CONCLUSION, I HATE THIS PHONE WITH A PASSION I love Android so much better than iPhone for a host of reasons, and I had such high hopes that my original Android experience would turn around with improved hardware. Unfortunately, if this phone is any indication, Android hasn’t matured quite yet and the hardware is largely to blame. For being the Cadillac of Android smartphones in 2016, I find myself dumbfounded as to why my experience is so overwhelmingly negative. I find myself now counting the months and days until I’m eligible to upgrade out of the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge into a more stable, capable smartphone, and I really wish that wasn’t the case.
I am a long time iPhone user. I first tried the Motorola Droid before switching to the iPhone and the difference was night and day. That was back when Android phones were very slow, crash prone and unrefined. By comparison, I loved the fast and silky smooth responsiveness of iOS, the ability to share apps, the tight integration with our Macs and the idiot-proof operation. That was all before Apple tried to get cute. I’d say iPhone “enhancements” started going south somewhere around iOS 8. Suddenly, instead of admiring how iOS always just worked, I found myself seriously questioning if Apple did enough pre-release testing and quality control checks prior to releasing new versions of iOS. It felt like we, the actual users, were the beta testers. The hardware also started getting less reliable as well, beginning with the iPhone 5. I had to have my iPhone 5’s defective battery replaced under Apple’s own little iPhone 5 batterygate scandal that many people seem to have forgotten about. Our entire family owns iPhones and we’ve all experienced some strange issues at one point or another. These were issues like defective cameras (hardware, not software, requiring hardware replacement of the camera), cases coming apart, numerous faulty battery issues and other quirks. I had a 6-plus that would shut down and display the empty battery icon with remaining battery levels in the 20-30% range. As soon as I plugged it into AC power, the phone would power on and the battery charge status would instantly shoot up to 20%. I was tiring of Apple’s deteriorating quality and angry at the fact that they weren’t really innovating enough to justify yearly upgrades. The final straw was when they revealed that they now wanted to charge me a minimum of $1,000 for their newest flagship model. That greedy move pretty much drove me away from Apple. I no longer find their products worth the premium prices they charge. Now, Samsung was not perfect either. My son owned an S4 and Note 5 and both had charging port issues wihin a year. That made me very leery of Samsung. However, the switch to a USB-C charging port as well as the fact that I knew Samsung would do everything in their power to ensure this Note was perfect after the Note 7 debacle convinced me to give this phone a try. So far, I love it. The size and weight are perfect, even in a case. The phone is still easily pocketable despite its apparent substantial size. Voice quality on calls rivals my home phone. The screen is absolutely gorgeous. I compared it to an iPhone X in store and I actually prefer the richer and deeper color saturation of the Note’s screen. The iPhone X screen was a little brighter but also more washed out looking. I keep my Note at 50% brightness all the time and it still looks stunning. My iPhone 7 looked too dim at 50% brightness. The dimmest I could go on the iPhone and still have decent screen quality both indoors and outdoors (not in direct sunlight) was about 75%. I don’t like auto-dim feature on either phone because it never sets the screen to a brightness that I prefer when indoors. The Note screen is also razor sharp thanks to a higher pixel density. I am not a fan of facial recognition on any device and don’t use it on the Note, nor would I use it on an iPhone. I also do not use the iris scanner. I figured having my fingerprints recorded on both the iPhone and Note was all the biometric privacy I’m willing to give up. Why put my face scan and iris scan out in the cloud as well? After hearing everything Snowden claimed, color me paranoid. I do think the Note 8’s fingerprint scanner is in a very goofy location and requires awkwardly reaching around the camera while trying not to press on the camera lens to use. However, the fingerprint scanner placement and the annoying Bixby are the only cons I can really find worth complaining about with the Note 8. The speed of the Note is fantastic and I breeze through apps and tasks just as quickly and easily as I did on my iPhone, sometimes even faster. I have yet to experience any freezing or slowdown. I did deactivate the always on screen but only because I have an Android Wear companion watch, so there is no need to have an always on screen showing redundant data. As far as companion watches, I will admit that Apple does smart watches best. If that is a considerably important feature, I give the nod to Apple. My Android Wear watch isn't bad. It’s just not nearly as refined as the Apple Watch. On the flipside, Android Auto is much better than Apple Car Play in my opinion, especially the ability to use either Google Navigation or Waze in your car’s navigation screen, both of which blow the doors off Apple Maps, especially the latter. I get great battery life from my Note and easily get two days of use out of a charge, even with it paired to my vehicle and smartwatch all day. The S pen is a nice tool if you do a lot of hand note taking but I find it easier to just type. The Note charges very quickly and I can charge it late at night and still have it complete before going to bed. That prevents leaving it plugged in all night and risking overuse of the battery. Yes, all these phones have built in overcharge protection but being connected to AC power still wears down the battery over time. I’ve had this told to me multiple times by Apple Store “geniuses” as they tried to claim how all my iPhone battery issues were likely my fault due to allowing the phone to charge overnight. The excuses changed after I shared that I already knew this and therefore never charge anything overnight. The camera on the Note 8 is the best I’ve ever had on a smartphone. My wife and I always envied the photos taken by her sister with her Note 5. We would all be at the same events and taking the same photos but her photos were sharper and more vivid than our iPhone pics. That was another feature that influenced my decision to switch. Another reason was the better reliability of Google’s calendar over Apple’s iCloud calendar. I switched to Goolge on my iPhone last year after iCloud’s calendar failed to sync several very important reminders across all my devices and failed to alert me as instructed. I’d create or update important events on my iPad or Mac and ithey wouldn't sync across all my devices or to my phone. It feels a little weird as an almost exclusive Apple user to own an Android phone. I myself own two MacBooks, three iPads, an Apple TV and I owned an iPhone 7 and Apple Watch before giving both away after purchasing this Note 8. However, I have fallen in love with the performance and looks of my Note 8. It feels so new and refreshing compared to the last few iterations of the iPhone (6, 6S, 7, 8) that were essentially identical phones with very slight and almost unnoticeable differences before the release of the iPhone X. However, $1,000 is a stiff price of admission to pay to finally get the first truly uniquely different iPhone in three years. I saved nearly $500 by purchasing the Note 8 rather than the 256GB IPhone X I ever so briefly considered purchasing. With stellar performance, a sleek body, outstanding screen quality, fantastic camera and the ability to handle all my smartphone needs just as well or better than The iPhone, Samsung is giving me every reason to make this switch permanent. If not for the awkward fingerprint scanner placement and unwanted annoyances like Bixby (which can be disabled by the way), it would absolutely be a perfect 5.
Note: I am reviewing this phone based on its quality and functionality, and it's full suggested retail price of $750, and not based on price-gouging from these third-party re-sellers. A quick prologue: I had been laying low since buying two Samsung Galaxy S6 Edges in early 2015 (one gold, one white - yes, I loved it that much). I knew that it was the perfect phone for me at that time, and that based on how the cell phone evolution was going on then (early 2015), I knew the S7 Edge would be an iterative succession, and not a big leap forward. So I bought my S6 Edges with the thought in mind that I would have it for at least 2-3 years. My analysis was that Samsung at that point in time had plateaued their curved screen technology and philosophy, and would move on next to foldable screens by 2020. I gave them a couple of buffer years in case they didn't feel like introducing us to such drastic technology too early, as Samsung has a habit of forward thinking, yet holding back a year or two so they can milk the most money out of their current technologies. Fast forward to this year, and I have not been wrong - Samsung has indeed matured and plateaued its curved screen plans, but their foldable screen technology has not been up to speed, so it would be delayed for another year or two (they are still on track for 2020). With the introduction and quick adoption/popularity of HDR technology, they can afford to stay on their curved screen plan for another year or two until they lower the costs of their foldable screen technology down enough for mass production. I loved my S6 Edges, but I got bored of the gold one quickly, and sold it to buy a Rose Gold iPhone 6S last year, while keeping the white S6 Edge. I loved everything about it - mainly the beautiful curved screen design, but even more so, the awesome camera, which was the best for its time, and still holds up today as one of the very best in bright light. If you go through my reviews, 99% of the photos from 2015 on are from my S6 Edge. It is so good I have replaced my travel DSLR with it (I still use my Canon 5D Mark III for my serious projects), and all my Instagram photos are also from my S6 Edge (you can find the link to my IG on my Amazon profile). Sorry for the long intro, but it ties to my review that the camera on the S8 is even better. Do not be fooled by early hands-on articles that the rear camera is the same as the S7 Edge. It is NOT the same. It is a new camera system developed by Sony, and it is a dual-pixel system which takes two photos each time you press the shutter button, and quickly and deftly combines the two to give you an awesome final photo, which contains HDR and selective focus elements/photo modes. It excels in low light conditions, with its f1.7 aperature, and it even exceeds the S7 Edge's camera. It might not compete in fast action with the ridiculous 960 fps Sony camera in its new Xperia X phones, but for everyday use, I feel this is the best phone camera so far. It has electronic image stabilization (EIS), even up to 4K video recording, which is a first for phone cameras. The front (selfie) camera is also vastly improved, but not as good as the 13MP camera of the LG G6. This is a photography geek's review, leading in with the camera, but I know most of you are more concerned with the big beautiful screen, which it is exactly that. The resolution is 2960 x 1440 pixels, or a pixel density of 570 ppi. The technology is Samsung's very own OLED, called sAMOLED. It is the same basic technology that makes the best TV screens in LG's OLED TVs. Samsung's 2017 version is so good, it is apparently the best screen ever. You can read more technical specs from Display Mate: displaymate. com/Galaxy_S8_ShootOut_01.htm (erase the space between the dot com) How Samsung has managed to squeeze all that goodness into a phone this size is quite a technological marvel, and quite a gamble as well. Instead of the 16:9 ratio 95% of the phones out there today have, they have chosen on an 18.5:9 ratio, similar to LG G6's 18:9 ratio, but a little slimmer. So this is Samsung's way of truly trying to stand out from the crowd for this generation (year). Cinema (movie theatre) ratio is 21:9, so there truly is no video/film format that perfectly fits this screen's ratio. So there will be empty spaces around the videos and movies you watch, but the black bezels will help eliminate that disparity - note that all S8's, regardless of what color scheme, have black front bezels. Some of the apps have yet to be updated to this ratio, so some will not resize properly, or will have black bars on certain edges. But there is a resize/full screen option in the S8's settings to get around this for now until the app developers update their apps. This phone is actually more narrow than the S6/S6 Edge. The S8 measures 68.1mm wide by 8.1mm thick by 148.9mm tall, and weighs 155 grams, while the S6 Edge is 70.1 x 7 x 142.1 mm, and weighs 132 g. But as you can see it is a tick thicker, and noticeable taller and heavier. So although the S8 has a total footprint that is larger than the S6 Edge, or is actually easier and more comfortable to hold in one hand. For further comparisons, the iPhone 7 is 138.3 x 67.1 x 7.1 mm (138 g), the iPhone 7 Plus is 158.2 x 77.9 x 7.3 mm (188 g), and the LG G6 is 148.9 x 71.9 x 7.9 mm (163 g). So it actually is easier to grasp in the hand than most other phones of similar size, only bested by the (much smaller) iPhone 7 (4.7-inch screen vs. 5.8-inch for the S8). The sound systems are also improved, as the speaker is louder and more clear, and the audio processing is much much better for listening to music with your earphones/headphones. However, it is still a mono speaker, not even stereo-immersive sound, and of course nowhere near as good as HTC's usual dual-speakers. Speaking of earphones, a pair of premium AKG earphones are included, which is the best factory-bundled earphones I have witnessed. It cannot compare to my Velodynes and Sennheisers, but it beats all other cheap generic bundled earphones. That reminds me, you should spend the extra $100 on the extra bundle, which in addition to the included VR headset, also includes a Samsun 256GB microSD card, and a pair of AKG Bluetooth headphones. Each sells for over $100, so you are actually saving a bunch: AKG Bluetooth Headphone Black (Y50BTBLK) Samsung EVO+ 256GB UHS-I microSDXC U3 Memory Card with Adapter (MB-MC256DA/AM). My S6 Edge worked fluidly and flawlessly in the first few month. But even with the top processor of the time, and 3GB of RAM, it slowed down as the memory neared the capacity, especially after the hundreds of photos began to pile up. The camera, once near instantaneous to turn on, now takes about a second. The S8, with its 4GB of RAM and Samsung's own Exynos 8895 so far is doing an impeccable job. The Snapdragon 821, and even the 820, is fast enough for 2017, so having the Exynos 8895 future-proofs it for another 2-3 years at least, since I feel with each successive processor, we are getting to the point where the hardware requirements for software is plateauing, and you would only need the latest processors for video games which keeps getting better and better and continually needs the fastest processor. I think once we reach 6GB of RAM, any processor beyond the 835/8895 should be fast enough for every day apps of the next 10 years. In totality, this is the first phone since the S6 Edge that I got really excited about, and with the rumored OLED iPhone coming out this year, 2017 should be a great year for fans of both sides to upgrade. If you don't mind the $750+ price, you can't go wrong with the Samsung Galaxy S8. It is an investment that should last a few years, or at least until those foldable screen phones come out....
When I heard the Note 5 had not only a non-removable battery, but a smaller capacity compared to previous Note's, I was hesitant; especially after the S6 left a sour taste in my mouth in terms of its lasting power. But I have to say, in my short time with this device, it has impressed me. The very first day I was able to get 6 hours of Screen on Time after messing around with the phone relentlessly, installing apps, streaming music a bit, browsing the web, disabling apps, playing a few games (for maybe 40 minutes), you name it. Obviously this scenario is a bit harder on it than your normal day to day use as excessive downloading and installing of apps is fairly intensive, not to mention just playing with the new device constantly. So the first day, after charging it to 100%, it was off the charger a total of a bit over 10 hours at that point with about 10% left - but with screen on time at over 6 hours mixed with standby and all the other intensive stuff I was doing, that is a great figure which greatly eclipses what my S6 could do. Day to day it is FAR better than that though. It is clear the larger 3,000 mAh battery is not just a concession to power the larger screen and having battery life end up just matching the S6 (with its smaller ~2500 mAh battery). As it stands today, my GSam Battery Monitor app shows I get, on average, 17 hours battery life with just shy of 6 hours screen on time per complete charge. I've yet to actually run out of battery, most times having 20% or more by plug in time. So these estimates are pretty true to life, though pure standby time can see this phone last a few days easily - Samsung really upped its game on standby time on this over the S6. I never turn wifi and bluetooth off, and I have a Moto 360 connected all the time as well. You might even get slightly better life if these things don't apply to you and you keep them turned off most of the time. This phone looks as though it will not struggle to get you through a day, even under fairly heavy usage. The "cell standby" drain from the S6 appears to have lessened, even if not completely fixed, but at least to the point where it is no longer the biggest battery drainer (before, it had even managed to top the charts when I had 3 hours of screen on time on the S6!). Everything about the design is great, it is a nice weight without feeling too light, the rounded corners and slightly thinner width helps with one-handleability, and it is a nice step up from the all plastic build of my Note 3. It is handsome and it feels rather premium. The glass on the back does make the device feel a little bit more fragile, like you have to be more mindful and baby it some. I'd say you largely will have to be more mindful, to some degree, than you would with the previous all-plastic models. However there were concerns the all glass construction would make it far too slippery, but I don't find it too problematic. You can wrap your fingers around it pretty easily in one hand, but one handed operation where your fingers lay on the back to do most of the supporting doesn't feel too worrying either. If your hands are wet beyond a light sweat (in which case, why are you handling a smartphone lol), you'll notice the lack of grip you are probably more accustomed to on textured, plastic backed phones. But I haven't really had any issues to this point, for what that is worth. The device runs super fluid with nary a hitch to be found. Even though it has the same processor as the months old S6, I can't fault the device for not giving the processor the customary Note spec bump. It is plenty powerful and appears to be quite solid in terms of power efficiency - far more so than it appeared on the S6. I'd rather have this power/efficiency combo than a newer chip that would - more than likely - hit the battery harder. The 4 GB of RAM is nice to have, but it does seem like the overactive RAM manager still likes to kill apps, making apps require a restart rather than resume. Not always the case, but it seems to happen enough to make note of. Not a big deal to me, but it may be for others. I think this is also a battery saving measure to keep multiple apps from stacking up and unnecessarily taking CPU cycles or pinging the Internet constantly in the background. It's missing the removable battery and expandable storage, which is a knock against it - but not enough to knock a star off in my book. These are an expectation for the Note series by most, and obviously a reduction of features any way you look at it. How important they are to you depends on your usage. I have a 32 GB model after having a 32 GB Note 3 paired with a 32 GB micro SD card. I pared my glut of games back to a reasonable amount - still have a ton installed - and that's all it required for me. This was something I was doing on my Note 3, so it didn't feel like a concession when I switched to the Note 5. I also either stream music or use my iPod Touch for music, so I don't need storage for that. I don't store local video and I don't take a lot of pictures or videos, so space is fine for me. If you need more, 64 GB tops the capacity for this model and it seems pretty fair for most users. If you need more, then this is obviously going to struggle to contend for your affection since 128 GB is currently unavailable, and will be absurdly pricey when it does eventually come around. The S-Pen is still a great stylus. More responsive and far less friction on the screen than the one on my Note 3. It appears to work better for general navigation as well, requiring only a single tap (rather than a few sometimes required on my Note 3). The screen-off note writing feature is a nice one, not having to worry about the screen firing up and so on - this is a nice, immediate way to take a quick note. The features of the pop up S-Pen launcher are all familiar, excepting small tweaks to existing features like being able to take a long screen capture - say a several page webpage you'd have to scroll. The release mechanism takes a little getting used to - with the little depression it takes to get it to pop out - but once you get used to it, it works well. Any better/more secure than on the Note 3? Not to my experience, as I never had issues with the pen from the Note 3 getting accidentally pulled out, or conversely any issue getting it out of its holder. But this is a nice implementation, and adds to the slightly more refined Note experience. The base price of $700 is pretty high, but if you trade in an old phone and get the $200 credit, you're looking at a pretty fair price when matched against other phones. I am quite happy with this as an upgrade over my Note 3, and FAR happier than I was with the S6 which I had for the full 14 days before deciding to exchange it for this. If you take stock of everything you may just realize that, for you at least, the ire drawn by Internet power users is not quite that crippling or straight up device-ruining. I miss the two removed features, largely because I would rather have access to the battery to replace if the cells start going later on in the phone's life, but right now I'm quite happy with the package as it stands and have no qualms recommending it.
Sorry, this video is unsupported on this browser.  Samsung Note 8 is an excellent bit and it surely has some of the finest specs of this generations High End phones, but it is expensive. Question is, If you should buy it in the April 2018 or not? To begin with the Samsung Note 8 has a snapdragon 835, 64gb of storage that’s expandable, 6gb of RAM which is 2GB more than the S8+, The phone and stylus are both independently IP68 water resistant. It has a 3.5mm headphone jack, Thank you Samsung for always keeping it there, a USB type C, dedicated button for bixby, it comes in grey gold blue black and I have the Black as you can see. A beautiful super amoled screen with 521 ppi of pixel density & 83.2% screen to body ratio. So its definitely a bigger brighter visual experience, pretty cinematic I must say. So what are some of the really cool things we can do with the Spen which is indeed what makes this device a Samsung Note. If you come with the aesthetics of an artist or going to become the next paablo picasow or Leonardo Daaal daaa vinsee i then the Spen is definitely a precision device. As you can see in the video review it can really get down to deep tight spots whilst drawing. But someone with my drawing skills won’t get much of it to be honest. Also SPen is capable to take notes during a call. In case you need to jot down a name or phone number quickly. This can be done on screen or separately in a note memo as well. You can also translate at the tip of Spen, it’s pretty quick and useful. One fun thing we could do with SPen is the live message, so draw down your short message and yes it can be sent via all your favorite sharing apps as long as they support GIF’s. It does send the message along with the animation which makes it super cool. Spen has added a bit more to multitasking buy introducing app pairing, so now you can pair two apps you wish to use side by side and can launch it with a single tap conveniently. So apart from the SPen, Samsung has introduced their very first Dual camera in Note 8. It’s a 12mp telephoto and 12mp wideangle lens which will give you that depth of field and the ability to control how much of the background should you wish to blur and make that focused object stand out. Both the cameras have optical stabilization, and better low light results. But the nicest bit for me was the 240 fps slow motion. Although it doesn’t capture the video at 1080p but 720p is fairly decent Now We know the specs, the new features of SPen & the all new Dual lens cameras of the Note 8 but should you buy it or not? Fact is the note 8 has pretty much the same DNA as the S8+, same processor, a screen which has almost the same brightness, its just 0.1 inch bigger than the Samsung S8+. Same Malig71 mp20 graphics. The camera yes its Dual lens, but does it make a difference to me, not really. I am not very particular about the depth of backgrounds in my pictures. Besides that it’s as good as the pictures I get from my S8+. Have to mention when you buy a better bigger phone, you expect the battery to be better as well, this however isn’t the case with the note 8, a 3300mah battery compare to the 3500mah battery of the S8+ resulting in less talk time eventually. If you are the loyal Spen user then it’s a must have for you but the ugly truth is that the Samsung note 8 costs a whopping 930$. Which is 241$ more than the S8+ & 90$ more than the s9+. With the launch of S9+ the prices of S8+ will eventually dive down. So there we have some facts aligned to make us decide if we should be buying the galaxy note 8 in April 2018 or should we give it another thought. Samsung Galaxy S8+ Unlocked 64GB - US Version (Midnight Black) - US Warranty Samsung SM-N950UZKAXAA Galaxy Note8 (US Version) Factory Unlocked Phone - 6.3" Screen - 64GB - Midnight Black (U.S. Warranty) Samsung Galaxy S9+ Unlocked Smartphone - Midnight Black - US Warranty Samsung Galaxy S9 Unlocked Smartphone - Lilac Purple - US Warranty
Pros:__________ · Compact design, almost bezeless display, feels extremely solid, and the design is purely top notch. Nothing else out there as of 2019. · The AMOLED display looks fantastic. I found it a joy when watching or reading anything from this screen. · I found the fingerprint reader to be very sensitive and quick. · The Aura Glow is something I honestly thought I would hate. But this rainbow effect is a beautiful look because you don’t see a rainbow but, depending on the angle of the phone, you only see one color. Look from a different angle I get a different color. Very creative and something new in a world of black and white phones. · The video editor is super easy to trim and add music to your clips. I did see that it does work with Adobe Premiere Rush, so that’s a big smile for all your move makers on the go. I will also say, using the pen is a lifesaver when you’re trying to trim seconds of a clip on a smartphone. · For a phone like this, battery life is very good. From 0-100% it only took an hour, and as an average phone user, a full day charge, with the 25-watt charging they provided, will bring my phone around 20% battery life left. Samsung has a 45 W charger than can cut the time in half of the charging, but you need to pay extra for that one. Still impressive. · The S Pen is shorter and thinner than it looks in person. · The Pen does an excellent job of converting my weak handwriting into a text. All you have to do is write your note, tap the text area, and press an onscreen “Convert” button. For English grammar, it worked flawlessly for me. I see the use of this feature if you need to take a quick note asap. · You can sync the Note 10 to your windows desktop (Dex mode). I haven’t tested this feature out, as you’ll need a USB-C to USB-C, but I do love that you have a mini laptop hard drive in your pocket. Just connect it to a computer and the phone will mirror its screen on to your monitor. I can see this super useful if you need to do presentations at work. Just put the PowerPoint file in your phone and connect it to your computer at work. · Another cool feature in the video making world for this phone is the “zoom-in mic” feature. If you don’t have an extension microphone, the phone will use the mics that it has, but not at the same time. When recording, it will the mics on the front of the phone to record your voice, making it clearer. And if you zoom in the mic sensitivity will increase, like having a boom mic. I didn’t test this fully as you’ll need to spend some time comparing this feature, but from basic video playback, the mics are spot on. Samsung is putting up its gain for anyone who wants to film. · Taking photos or videos in very difficult places, the S pen will be your best friend. You can begin filming, or taking, shots, by just clicking on the S pen. It’s a small feature, but I believe is one of the most useful to have. · The stabilization is excellent. I was just walking while filming, and it looks like the phone was on a wire. This is the best stabilization I’ve seen on a phone so far. Well done Samsung. · You have revers charging with this phone, which will, of course, kill your battery. But still, cool to have. · The AR Doodle feature is really cute if your taking photos with friends. I took a picture of just random people and this feature allows me to draw anywhere on the pic without destroying it. Using the pen, making hats and mustaches can make even boring pictures funny. · The Live Focus mode main function is to let you blur out the background. I did like this a lot because you can just block anyone in the background that doesn’t fit your “perfect” picture. It does work well if your object is focused before taking your shot. · The cameras are…well…there just great. Sharp, colorful, ultra-wide provides the same color profile/quality as close up zoom. The details that these cameras can provide is beyond words. I have nothing to say on the overall outcome a smartphone camera like this. It’s the top of the class until Google’s Pixel comes into play. · The sound is also great. It doesn’t come to any specific location, but rather throughout the phone. Samsung built the volume deep in the phone so it can go everywhere, are you will never cover it with your hands. Loud and crisp (no base though). · Playing games like Alto’s Odyssey had no issues other than getting noticeably warm after 40 minutes, which makes sense for that power. Also thanks to the support of UFS 3.0 specification, you’re going to get faster loading times (This was hard to test how much of an impact it has on the phones day-to-day activities, but all I can say is that I had little to none loading time). Cons and Oks:__________ · It’s the end. No more headphone jack. Bringing so much joy and now Samsung’s closest ally has let it go. · The night mode is good, but it’s still nowhere compared to phones like Google. Samsung has yet to master the night mode shots as their system is to up the ISO and slow the shutter speed. They did up there game, but it’s still not enough to get great night shots. I’m overall getting a busy shot and using the telephoto and ultra-wide lenses are both useless at night. · No microSD card slot on the Note 10. · The ultra-wide sometimes creates a fisheye effect. You will see this effect more if there are some bright/mixed colors at the end of your pictures (like a tree or a building with windows). I did notice that I got a slight bend at the way end of my pictures, which makes the image look weird. The solution I found was just to crop the image. I hope software updates will fix this. · With a group of people walking in the background, there were times that the phone had a hard time trying to get focused on the person I was taking. This happens when trying to use the regular and telephoto lenses. · The telephoto lenses tend to over sharpen my images. Taking a close pic of a rose I saw this issue come up. Now for a regular person, this is no issue at all, but for a photographers eye, you’ll see this. · Be warned, get a case. An all-glass design makes writing with the pen a slippery task. I felt more concern holding the phone than what I was writing, so I knew this a must-have case. · You can only write short notes with the pen. I notice that you can’t even write a full sentence on a single line if you wanted the phone to convert your writing into a text. · 45-watt charger cost extra. · The front-facing camera is…well, it’s a front-facing camera. Nowhere near as good as the back, but good enough for having meetings. · Samsung’s keyboard is horrible to use. If you get this download Gboard, it’s the best in smartphone keyboards. · The ultrasonic fingerprint sensor is fast, but even the tiniest dirt on your finger, it makes the process a little slower. Nothing really impressive on this if your hands are sweaty or dirty. · I hate the fact that you have to go to your notifications to shut down the phone. Holding the power button activated Bixby, you can change this if you want. To be honest, Bixby isn’t the best around, so I’ll always change it. · The S pen Air Actions are a neat little tool to use, but I saw more as an accessory than a tool. I didn’t feel the need to use this feature, but it does work. It also does take some practice to get the hang of it but it’s irrelevant for the day to day use. · The battery drains at a pretty consistent rate. The beauty of the device is the screen, but it’s the most that kills the battery. · Every single space on this phone is a fingerprint magnet. · This phone does have a little more weight than your average smartphone. Bottom Line:__________ Samsung is putting the stops in making this a phone for filming. With an almost bezel-less display, an excellent video editing program, and a great battery life, the theory is supported. I admire the premium layout of this phone as the S-pen is very fun to use (but not yet a priority in daily use), the screen is just beautiful, and the system as a whole is excellent. There are some issues with the cameras on this phone, like the “night mode” inaccurate pictures, and I also wish they moved the front-facing camera to the side like before (even though the little black camera is small, it’s still noticeable.). But the honest truth is that I really have nothing super negative about it. Some small issues are there, but I know software updates will fix these problems, or at least I hope they can. Overall: A phone enjoyed for everyone, but built for those who want to film. Hope I was a help to you. Love, Honest Reviewer
I am a die hard Apple person. All my desktop computers at home are Apple, my other 4 family members all have iPhones and we have laptops that are all Apple. Not really sure why I decided to try out the Samsung Galaxy S9+ but happy that I did so far. I was using a 4 1/2 year old iPhone 5s so I figured any phone would be a huge upgrade to the modern world. It still takes a little getting used to coming from the IOS system's way of doing things. I do lose the capability of iMessage and FaceTime. Not a huge deal and I can use the DUO app from Google which is the same as FaceTime. The key points with this phone are that the large and beautiful screen looks great. I like the haptic feel of the keys when texting how you feel the keys being pressed (a little buzz/vibration). I think the new iPhone X does this too but again, I'm coming from a 5s. My only two choices for a new phone were this S9+ or keep on with Apple and get an iPhone X. The X would have cost me $1150 plus an AppleCare warranty for $200. I got this Samsung (and got the Ultimate Play Bundle) for $840 plus $100 for the bundle. Took out a Square Trade 2 year warranty for $108 with only a $99 deductible should I need to use it. I have used Square Trade warranties in the past for other products and they have always replaced and stood by their guarantee. Square Trade is owned by Allstate so I have confidence in them. Getting back to the phone, the S9+ seems to work VERY fast when loading apps and pages. I use it for a lot of my wireless products at home (Nest thermostat, wireless cameras, LIFX lights, Liftmaster garage door opener) and all work fast and flawlessly. The audio when playing music sounds great. Plays very loud and clear for a phone. I like the fact that it does still have an earphone jack. I like the Android system as it comes with Google Assistant voice command. Most people hate the Bixby feature on this phone. My only real gripe with it is the large button on the left side of the phone and that when trying to adjust the phone volume I accidentally hit Bixby sometimes. I do like though that i's voice activated. I get in my car in the morning, speak to wake up Bixby and command it to open up whatever app I need (usually Waze). Once open, I speak to Waze to take me to work. All of this without having to look at my phones screen or take my eyes off the road. Also, the Bixby AI camera function is very cool too. There are about 8 or 9 different things it can do with the camera. Like, point the camera lens at a sign in a foreign language and have it live translate the sign to English or any other language on the phone (and there are plenty of them on this phone). Point it at food and it will tell you what it is and average calorie count. Point it at a wine bottle label and it will give you the information on the wine (type, year, etc...). The ONLY thing I think I will never use again and of course I tried it out is the Animoji of myself or any of my friends. It's scary weird. Everyone looks the same on this. I would personally like to see an update to the phone where they fix this to be more of a 3D type and look more realistic. I have been looking online for days at comparisons of the pictures taken on this phone compared to others. Mot notably the iPhone X. In my opinion, the X does do a lot of pix better. The contrast is usually better. The real advantage to this phone is it tends to overexpose a bit. So, dark scenes will look a bit brighter than on the iPhone X. The only thing I had to get used to is the colors on a Samsung phone are very oversaturated. Colors are very bright. There is a setting in display function that gives you 4 options of view. I turned it down to one of them and it now looks a LOT more realistic. I like the fact that this phone, as well as the iPhone X, features ability to record video at 4K 60fps. Looks great. On the Samsung though the optical stabilization doesn't work when shooting 4K 60fps. Keep a steady hand and this isn't an issue. For all other video formats, the stabilization on the Samsung works better than the X. All in all, I am happy I went with the Samsung. In a few months if I regret it, I can always keep it for a few months and sell it to get the new larger iPhone X Plus. UPDATE: 4/7/2018. The voice unlock code is terrible. And, after searching through the options on the phone I came to the conclusion I don't need it. I have the face unlock or the fingerprint reader on the back. I actually go to the back fingerprint scan to unlock more than the other methods as it's just quick and easy to use. Battery life has been good so far after using this phone for 3 weeks now. One thing I find annoying that I didn't know would be a problem is the video and picture quality when someone sends me a large video via texting. Whether I send them a video or they send me one, it becomes such low quality that it's almost hard to see it at all. This is because of the compression the carriers use to send these video's or large picture files so it doesn't take up much space. I was used to having an iPhone and using iMessage. Send any size video to someone else with an iPhone and it was in great quality on both sides of the text. Not so with Android. Now this is not just Samsung but all Android phones. So, for now, I have to send videos via WhatsApp or Viber (or a number of other text apps). They do compress but not horribly. Oh, and one more note. I hope Samsung corp is reading this review. The Samsung customer service reps have to be the stupidest people I have ever dealt with for a tech company. I used to think Comcast was bad until I called a couple of times and had to speak with someone at Samsung. They just repeat my question and tell me they understand how I feel offering absolutely no answers. They put you on hold to find out but come back with no resolve. Just terrible customer service. 180 degrees from dealing with someone at AppleCare when I had a question about my iPhone or iMac computer. 2nd UPDATE: I didn't realize this and this is VERY important to know before purchasing. In fact, I'm on the AT&T network with my phone and the people in the factory store didn't know this. The sales people in Best Buy in the phone department did not know this either. When you buy an unlocked Galaxy S9 or S9+, your phone is $840. If however you want to buy it thru AT&T for their network and not a factory unlocked phone, it has different options on it. Meaning, the unlocked phone WILL NOT have: WIFI calling option, HD Audio option, VVM (video voice messaging) and you will not get video voice calling. The option for these features is not even on my phone. Now, you CAN buy the AT&T phone and pay $915 up front or on a plan (either way it's $75 more than the factory unlocked phone). After you pay $75 ,more and if you are paying the full price up front, you can get the AT&T phone unlocked and then you will have these features. Nowhere at Best Buy or any AT&T store do they tell you this. In my mind, it's a great misrepresentation that is omitted when purchasing. I picked up the bundle package here on Amazon for $100 more and got a lot of cool gadgets so I'm keeping my setup. I just want others to know there is a difference when buying the unlocked version both in price and the feature set you get. I figured the AT&T version just had a bunch of their proprietary apps pre-installed. Hope this helps out someone beforehand that really wants those features. And, I went to the AT&T store figuring there was a way they could flash the options to my phone. There isn't. They cannot update your phone to get these options. 3rd UPDATE: April 15th, 2018 I discovered a great feature today. I wish these Galaxy 9 phones had the rise to wake feature which is what the iPhone X has. You pick up the phone and just look at it to unlock via your face and it's good to go. What I discovered is setting the Google Assistant to open the Galaxy EVEN FROM the locked screen via my voice and the phone unlocks and does what you ask the Google Assistant to do. Love this feature immensely. 4th UPDATE April 23, 2018 As I play around more with this phone, I am learning some cool things it can do. For instance, from the factory it come pre-set so that whether you swipe up or down the phone will go to your app tray. No need for repetition with swiping either up or down. There is a setting so that when you swipe up it opens the app tray (as it come from Samsung pre-set) but change the setting and when you swipe down from any place on the phone and you've got your phones popular settings in front of you. Even better, if you swipe down using two fingers from the top of the screen, it opens the second part of the settings which control other functions (usually this is a two part deal so this makes it one step easier). Also, one thing Samsung addressed with the 9 and 9+ (using the Oreo software) is a problem people using these phones prior used to hate. Now, you can set the up/down volume buttons to control MEDIA volume no matter what you are viewing. And, if you want to control the ringtone or another type of volume, when you push up or down on the volume and the MEDIA volume shows just tap on the down arrow on the top left of the screen and you have all the others ready to adjust exactly as you like them. Apparently from reading online this has been an annoyance of a problem for a long time with the Galaxy phones that is now solved.
This phone came from seller in absolute perfect condition, "like new" as advertised, "refurbished" in a box, in shrinkwrapped packaging, with a brand new plug, new cord and new headphones, with SIM card tool. I would never know it was not brand new. Not a flaw... It came in two days, as ordered on Prime, even though I got a message from Amazon that it world take a week. So I was very happy they honored the initial delivery date. Seemed to come from Amazon direct as opposed to a third party seller. Confused but happy. For reference I bought the Note 5- 64G memory, which it is...and the operating system seems to be working perfectly. Had lots of updates. I had to upgrade from the Note 4, 32G because of internal memory issues that I was told at the Sprint Store could not be remedied by a factory reset. Too many years of updates. And no matter how much I cleaned things out, and switched things to my 128G memory card, it kept maxing out the minute I took a few vids. Plus the keyboard was driving me crazy for awhile now. Seemed to be very off with the S pen. I tried different keyboards, it just sucked. It is almost 4 years old and heavy use. There was no way I was paying $960.00 for a new phone, with another round of monthy Sprint payments, as it seems Ibjust finished a year and a half ago on the $700.00 for the Note 4, so they suggested I look at the Note 5... Prices for new still range from around $300.00 for 32G to $700.00 for 64G, new. I wanted the bigger memory and RAM for sure learning a big, huge lesson.... So I dipped in hesitantly to refurbished, so far, so good... The deal... I was very torn to try the Note 5, like many, because the Note 5 does NOT have expandable memory capabilities, nor the ability to buy an extra battery in that very cool charging case the Note 4 offered. I read the reason why is because the Note 5 is sealed to be waterproof to a point and made with Gorilla glass front and back for beefed up ptotection. Comparing each phone so far, I really do like some of the new camera features, more like using a a real camera with total control of features, even manual focus to f/1.9 as opposed to auto f/2.0 on the 4. I love the zoom, I like how they moved the flash to the side... I love how you can double click home button to deploy camera, that is just spectacular! You can still use the voice command "say cheese" to take the shot, and it seems to respond much quicker. Megapixels are still the same for the back camera, which was great to start with, front camera upgraded to 5MP from 3.7MP.. The S pen feature of the "click" pen I do like. Seems great so far, easy to use, no clue why people have an issue with this. My pen on my Note 4 started falling out after these years of use, so just makes sense. The pen has a more defined tip too. Writes, draws better, etc. but basically still the same shape, squared, and ame size, which is great, I hate those little round pens!!! ***A warning I saw on You Tube is never accidentally put the pen in backwards, it will ruin the mechanisms inside of the phone, you wull not be able to use an S pen on the phone again...so not a toy for kids.. Just everything seems more easy and intuitive on this phone. System is definately quicker going from the Snapdragon 805 32 bit quad core, 2.7 GHz to the Exynos 7420 64 bit octa core 2.1 Thx + 1.5 GHz. And 4 GB of RAM on the Note 5 vs. 3 GB on the Note 4. It says the 5 also gets a RAM upgrade. It is a much zippier experience as advertised. (Same system as the Note 6 BTW). I like the new slightly slimmer size and hard glass back. It is 11 percent thinner, 3 percent lighter with more rounded corners like an iPhone. Still has the control button which was one of my big beefs with the almost thousand dollar Note 8, $960.00 from Sprint to be exact. All that screen to be put in a case is just crazy to me. Display size is still the same on the Note 5 as Note 4 despite the thinner size. Phone is very good looking phone, but we all use some kind of a case, right? Lol ! I like the speaker being placed on the bottom of the phone, not the back, which is stupid if you use a folding wallet type case. I like the headphone jack being on the bottom too, no headphone wires draping across the screen. Genious. I did allot of research on You Tube that I recommend. You will find the battery in the Note 5 is a bit smaller capacity then the Note 4. The Note 5 has a 3,000mAh battery vs. the 3,220mAh of the Note 4. The Note 5 has Wireless charging capacity, the Note 4 does NOT. Side by side the bigger 4 battery drained quicker then the slightly smaller 5. But...it's newer with probably a more efficient opersoperating system, so is this really an issue? We shall see in time. Some other just cool things, when you deploy the S pen, phone sleeping, you can write directly on the screen to take a quick note. You can do multi page screen shots, no more cutting pasting mess. You just drag pen on command to the end of what you want screen capped, again genius! You can even buy a blackberry style keyboard cover that slides onto the Note 5 if that is your thing. I remedied the memory issue by planning to use a wireless Scandisk 256G memory stick I bought a few months ago on Amazon on sale for $96.00 off for my ipad...which is amazing, and I got the Anker Astro 6700 candy bar sized power bank on a lightening sale a ways back as well. So you can definitely get around the memory and battery issues. You can use the phone while plugged into the Anker power bank series... And you have the option now to charge on a cordless base instead of having to keep plugging in phone, unplugging the phone, going through cords every few months...so, there is a plus too at home, work, travel.. Trade offs seem pretty sweet. I will uodate in a few months of phone use, again, this is just a PREVIEW. Hope this helps.
I haven't owned a Samsung Galaxy since the S3--my last seven phones have been from Huawei or Xiaomi and before that from One Plus, Essential and Google (Nexus and Pixel). But after several years of using international unlocked phones I wanted to try an Android phone specifically meant for use in the United States again and since One Plus and Pixel phones are ludicrously overpriced Samsung ended up being pretty much the only choice. The good: The Galaxy S10+ features the latest generation Snapdragon 855 processor (in North America, China, and Japan--everybody else gets Samsung's inferior in-house Exynos processor instead) and plenty of RAM so it's fast and powerful. The display is nice, both large and bright with excellent color. On paper, the display supports HDR+ allowing 4K content from Netflix to be viewed with the best color accuracy but when watching movies and television episodes on a 6.4-inch smartphone screen, I'm not sure how anyone can actually tell. The ultrasonic fingerprint scanner and face unlock are fast (although I didn't test how secure either actually was). The battery is large and should provide even heavy users who do lots of media streaming or gaming with a full day of power on a single charge. Signal strength and call quality are excellent. You even get a headphone jack and a slot for an external memory card, two features you almost never see these days on flagship smartphones. The Samsung Galaxy S10+ also runs Android Pie which is currently the latest version of Android. The bad: While Samsung used to have one of the best Android cameras they have fallen behind Chinese rivals Huawei and Xiaomi. The camera on the S10+ is solid and takes good enough pictures but as flagships go it doesn't measure up to the competition--particularly where low light shots are concerned. Samsung has been using the same camera sensor on its Galaxy line since the S7--that's four generations of Galaxy phones without an upgrade. Samsung's current charging technology is almost painfully slow compared with Xiaomi and Huawei--particularly wireless charging which seems to take forever. Bixby which was supposed to be Samsung's alternative to Google Assistant. I don't know even one person with a Samsung phone who actually uses Bixby but there's a dedicated Bixby button on the S10+. Samsung needs to either ditch the Bixby button entirely or make it easier to remap. The Xiaomi assistant button can be remapped to Google or Alexa in seconds. With Samsung you need to download a third-party app from the Play Store, have access to a computer, download ADB tools from Google or another website, enable the hidden Developer Options menu on your phone and allow USB Debugging, connect your phone to the computer, open a command prompt window and then type the necessary ADB commands--otherwise the Bixby button is always mapped to Bixby. The Galaxy S10+ is less comfortable to hold than any phablet I've owned in recent memory--overall the size is virtually identical to the Xiaomi MI 9 but the S10+ feels awkward and the less than ergonomic button placement (power button very high on the right side with Bixby and volume buttons very high on the left) doesn't help. The Galaxy S10+ might be a little on the heavy side thanks to its large battery but a slightly more curved body and better button placement would have gone a long way towards making the S10+ more comfortable in the hand. The speakers are loud-- the S10+ comes with a single bottom-firing speaker and a front-facing earpiece speaker that's also used to create a stereo effect--but they don't really sound very good even with Dolby Atmos to enhance the quality. Samsung is terrible with software updates for its official US unlocked phones--right now it's August and their unlocked S10+ is still on the May security patch. In the US unlocked smartphones account for an extremely small percentage of the market so Samsung focuses their resources on software updates for carrier-branded models. Updates for Samsung's unlocked US phones come months after the carriers get them. The rest: The use of a punch hole in the display for the front-facing cameras (and earpiece speaker?) is something I have mixed feelings about. It does give Samsung bragging rights on paper about a higher screen to body ratio but in practical everyday use, the camera cutout is located far enough from the top of the display that you end up with an unusually thick screen-wasting taskbar when using apps not designed for fullscreen mode--and with fullscreen apps that have a light background the dark oval punchout is at least as distracting as a notch. Samsung uses its own custom skin on top of Android called One UI. The overall software experience isn't bad and there are definitely some useful features that you won't find in stock Android. The problem is that Samsung throws in an over-abundance of features that can't be disabled even if you have no use for them so One UI ends up needlessly draining the battery. With more streamlined software S10+ owners could easily get two full days of normal use without a charge but One UI sucks up way too much power for that to happen. Ultimately the biggest problem with the Galaxy S10+ is price--the Xiaomi MI 9 has the same Snapdragon 855 processor as the S10+, is every bit as fast, charges more quickly, takes better pictures, and offers both face-unlock and an in-screen fingerprint reader and overall build quality superior to phones from Google Pixel and OnePlus. The Xiaomi MI 9 listed for $500 at launch but can currently be purchased for as little as $350 brand new. With the Galaxy S10+, you get a nicer display and bigger battery but is that worth an extra $400-$600? There are two very large problems for smartphone consumers here in the United States: 1) Apple and Samsung have a virtual duopoly in the market here and account for roughly 70% of all phone sales in the United States, giving Apple and Samsung pretty much no incentive to innovate or lower prices. 2) 90% of consumers in the United States purchase phones through their carriers, giving our phone carriers the power to act as the gateway to US customers and eliminate anything resembling free-market competition. In terms of innovation and price, the best Android phones in recent years have come from Xiaomi, Honor, and Huawei but none of those phones are on shelves here in the United States. That's allowed Samsung, Google Pixel and OnePlus to sell US consumers inferior phones at grossly inflated prices. The Samsung Galaxy S10+ might currently be the best phone on the US market--it has significantly more premium build quality than phones from Google Pixel or Oneplus, it’s fast and powerful, has a big battery, a great display and lots of features. But in a market with better choices paying more than $700 for the Galaxy S10+ would be hard to justify.
My wife and I have had the Samsung S8+ for a little over a week now. I am an avid Samsung Galaxy user, and have been using them since the 4th generation. Here are the pros and cons as I see them to this device. Pros: - Android Nougat is a very smooth OS. It's a definite upgrade from the previous versions. Just keeps getting better. - The cameras on this phone are both amazing. Makes great photos! - Very slick design on phone, aesthetically speaking. It looks very nice. - Comes with a nice variety of accessories, including adapters for charging in case you want to use a micro-USB charger or want to hook up a USB cable accessory for any reason. - Extremely good graphics on this device. Resolution is phenomenal. - Wide range of settings for customizing your user experience and security. (Even more than the usual for an Android/Samsung device) - Continued to allow for external storage, unlike the S6, which made me very happy. - I haven't put the water resistance to the test, but I'm assuming it's as good as the last model. Glad it's there. - The full screen layout is very nice for movies and gaming. I adjusted to the homescreen button being part of the screen almost instantly. Cons: - This is an EXTREMELY fragile design, especially the back of the phone, which is also coated in the Gorilla Glass, from what I can tell. My wife dropped hers from about 10 inches, with a case on, on the 5th day of ownership. The back of the phone cracked, chipped, and spider-webed all over within just a few hours. The phone was insured through our carrier, but the cheapest solution was to send it in to Samsung for a $75 repair job (plus shipping and handling). I would strongly recommend using a reputable case and screen protector at all costs. And be sure you insure this device. Lots of the durability tests that I have seen on YouTube have exposed this design flaw as well. - The headphones that come with the phone aren't that great. In previous editions, they provided Samsung-brand headphones that sounded great. It looks like they've started using another company to produce their headphones. There is very little bass or mid-range in the sound, so if you use your headphones for music, gaming, or videos, be prepared to get a better brand. - The new Bixby application via Samsung... I'm still trying to adjust to it. It's Samsung's version of Google Assistant/Siri. It's not that it's not a useful concept, but you don't get much of a choice but to use it. There's a dedicated button on the left of the phone that can not be deactivated from what I can tell. It's right below the volume button and is easy to press unknowingly and can get annoying quickly. I hope Bixby grows on me. - The voice command features for both Google and Bixby is weak in this edition. I have had to reprogram my voice recognition settings about 5 times already, and it still only picks up the commands about 30% of the time. Oddly enough, it works much better for the Bixby service than the Google Assistant service. (That struck me as a bit suspicious) - The speech-to-text application in general took a step backwards with this edition. My S7 and S6 both did a wonderful job for the most part of translating my speech. This phone, however, has massive errors in its translation. It hyphenates words that don't need to be and substitutes words incorrectly, and often. I have to speak EXTREMELY slowly and phonetically in order to get it to work. The fact that I have a Southern accent doesn't help whatsoever. This was one of the worst drawbacks for me, personally, because I use the speech-to-text feature often with my work. Overall: It's a gorgeous phone with some definite upgrades but concerning drawbacks. If I were Samsung, I would put a lot of emphasis on making a more durable design on the future editions. Worth buying - just keep it well protected.
This is probably my favorite smartphone to date. There are so many pros that it is hard to find any cons to list, but here they are: Cons: This is a minor annoyance, and not really a con of the phone, but more of the description of the color, but this phone is dark blue. No, it isn't black, and calling it black sapphire is just silly. It is dark blue. No, it doesn't "look" blue at certain angles while actually being black most of the time like some have said on here as well as some professional reviewers. If anything, occasionally, at odd angles while looking at the phone (45 degrees to the side of it), it looks black, or if the room is really dim. But under most normal circumstances while holding it and looking dead on, it is dark blue, with a dark charcoal undertone. You will not confuse this with being a black phone, especially if you have a black background or cover on it. If you are not into dark blue phones, then avoid this color. My wife also has a white version that is a true white and looks fantastic. I also think the "black sapphire" is quite nice as well, just misleading. I like how upon close inspection, they got rid of the micro grid/dots of the S5 and it is a solid color when looking closely. The next con is also a minor one, but the back is a fingerprint/smudge magnet. The look is amazing with the highly reflective glass panel they chose, but suffers from the same smudge issues with glass panels like the Xperia and iphone 4/4s. If you have a cover on it, this will be a nonissue. The final con is solely a Verizon thing. How I hate Verizon and their horrible restrictive and arbitrary limitations. First, Samsung Pay beta isn't allowed on the Verizon version yet, and they won't comment on whether or not they will ever allow it, only that it won't be released on September 28th with the other carriers. Luckily, Android Pay works just fine. Most likely due to past experience, they are planning their own flawed horrible app to compete. And then, while the Note 5 is limited on bloatware compared to previous generations, Verizon (compared to AT&T and TMobile) has a whole folder of its useless garbage apps on it again. Dear Verizon, your products and apps suck. Your voicemail app is horrible, your messaging app sucks, and your navigation is border line obsolete. Stop loading this garbage on there and trying to force unsuspecting geriatrics, who have got to be the only individuals clueless enough to use these products instead of superior free options. I won't take a star off for this, but if you have a choice and network coverage is available where you are, use any other carrier and do yourself a favor. Pros: First, while this is a superficial and relative opinion, I have to say that this phone just looks stunning! Well done Samsung! I can't honestly believe this phone came from Samsung. Everything from looks to build quality are probably my favorites on the market today, including HTC, Apple, and Sony phones. It is just beautiful, front to back. Despite having a 5.7 inch screen, this phone is super thin, and has tiny top and bottom bezels, and virtually nonexistent side bezels. It is very easy for me to hold, and the curved back is a perfect complement. Often, HTC, LG, and motorola put curved backs that feel good ergonomically, but bulk up the phone and look (IMO) bad. However, this phone has the looks of a flat back, thin profile, and slight curves going up on the sides. This isn't a gimmick like the S6 edge, but actually functional. And next to an Iphone 6plus, this phone is just so much better looking. Honestly, its hard to believe, but the iphone 6 plus (and new 6s) just looks under-engineered compared to this aethetically with its bloated bezels and smaller screen to size ratio. I had read several reviews and looked at several pictures commending the aesthetics of this phone and wasn't able to see what they were so thrilled about, but it isn't until you see the phone in person you understand. For whatever reason, the curved back sides and glass back just don't photograph well. However, it just feels and looks amazing in person. It is thin, sturdy, lightweight but not too light, and the metal glass combo looks fantastic, far better executed than the Xperia line (although I haven't seen the new Xperia premium). I honestly could go on and on about the looks of this phone. Next, and this has been well documented by professional reviews to include Displaymate's own personal validation, this screen is the best screen of any phone I have ever seen. Period. If you think otherwise, well, you're simply wrong and/or biased towards another manufacturer (*cough* isheep *cough*). The clarity is unreal, and the hyper realistic contrast is ridiculous. The colors just pop off the screen from any angle, and unlike some other AMOLED screens, actually look realistic when viewing pictures. Whites are white, blacks are inky black, and its hard not to find a reason to just turn the phone on and stare. Professional testing has shown that this phone has the largest color spectrum at the highest accuracy of any phone currently on the market. I have had both high resolution LCD and AMOLED, and this phone just blows them all away. Even at 40% light, this thing is extremely bright and vivid. The camera on this phone, along with the double click home button option to bring up the app, is out of this world. You simply can't take a bad picture (or at least, its really difficult to do) in almost any situation. My phone came with auto-HDR on, and honestly, it doesn't effect the speed at all. Also, even when off, or whatever app you are on, double clicking the home button and getting to your camera in under a second is brilliant. Considering I frequently reach for my DSLR, it is honestly difficult to legitimize carrying that monster around for most everyday pictures with the quality this thing is taking even in low light, with full auto! No messing with ISO, shutter speed, aperture, etc. Just take out and click and enjoy amazing pictures, even in low light with no flash. Granted, it will never replace the overall ability of my DSLR for staged pictures, bokeh, and landscape shots, but for casual "memories", this is amazing. I debated on getting a phone without a fingerprint sensor, and honestly, I'm glad I chose this phone. The fingerprint sensor on this is blazing fast and full proof. I have not had a false read to date (except when I obviously had my finger completely off angle). Love this function as opposed to using a lock screen password or pattern. This seriously gave me heartburn because of my experience with Samsung phones and tablets in the past, but I was dreading the notorious Samsung lag. I have tried in the past years to either get a Nexus device or a lightly skinned device when possible because of this. However, this time around, (and apparently the same is true of the S6 and on), I get zero lag. I'm sure part of this is the RAM and processor combo, but it is even faster than my pure Android devices. It is all buttery smooth, snap your head back fast. I don't know if Samsung finally optimized Touchwiz and debloated it enough, or the Exynos processor is just that good (or both), but this phone is a joy to use. I will update this based on time to see if it eventually slows down. Also, while debloating their skin, they also added very useful additions like true multitasking. With the size of this screen, I frequently have two apps open at the same time. The stylus on this thing is nice, but not necessarily a necessity for me. I like being able to use it while the device is off to jot down quick notes, but not really the reason I bought it. Battery life has been good for me. It doesn't have the several day life of some of the Droid line, but is still very nice. In addition, the fast charging function of this is amazing! I can't believe how fast it charges my phone. I often put it down to charge while going to bed and get a notification that its fully charged before I completely fall asleep (it rarely goes below 5%, but from empty, expect an hour at most, and usually, it only takes 30 minutes for a full charge)! I'm sure I'm missing some other pros, but all in all, I couldn't be happier with this phone! *UPDATE 12-18-15: After a few months of use, I am still in love with this phone, probably more so. Learning any Android fun can be that way because you discover more functionality and customization options as you own it that really make the product better as you own it. The dreaded "Samsung" slow down hasn't happened to me yet. This phone is still blazingly fast at everything it does. The camera is still amazing, and compared to an iPhone 6s plus in side by side Christmas pictures we recently did (not a staged test), I honestly can't see how anyone would choose the iphone in a comparison test. In order to have usable pictures in dim light, the other user had to have the flash on. Auto HDR was far superior on the note5 and I was able to capture pictures in very difficult lighting that the iphone just simply couldn't. Another HUGE update for me was getting Samsung Pay finally on my phone. Verizon finally allowed the update, most likely after all of the complaining from customers. I must say, this update really is a game changer. I was casually using Android Pay before, but with this, this is simply brilliant. I have only noticed one location that can't use Samsung Pay, and that's at gas pumps. Otherwise, it works flawlessly and quickly anywhere a credit card swipe terminal exists, even if NFC isn't enabled. I can't tell you how many times I have had the cashier tell me, "That doesn't work here" or "That isn't activated with us yet" and I simply ignore them and use my phone like I would a credit card (the side swipe bar instead of the NFC terminal). Everytime, I get looks of confusion when a split second later, the transaction goes through. I get reactions from, "Oh, i didn't know that worked, they must have activated it finally" to ,"wow, my phone doesn't even do that!" to just simply, "Oh..." and a look of confusion. The only annoying part is trying to explain to some that yes, Samsung Pay works on your outdated terminals, and no, your precious iPhone still won't be able to do it. It doesn't seem to register that an iPhone can't do something before another company. To me, this is a huge update, because I was able to slim down my wallet and only keep a backup credit card and cash for the rare occasions that this doesn't work. Otherwise, I enjoy using it because it is more secure and keeps my life less cluttered. Others may not see the benefit in paying with your smartphone as much. I also still love staring at the screen. Going to other screens will be hard after getting used to the Note5. Update 8/10/17: This phone is still AMAZING! If you can snag one at the current prices of around $350, do it, do it now. Unless you care about having the latest trendiest phone, this phone is a solid purchase at that price. Samsung has really impressed me with their newer phones. This phone is now approaching 2 years of use, and it is still zippy with no lag. I would probably have gotten the version with 64 gbs of memory, but otherwise, no complaints. It is thin, the screen is beautiful, it still looks like a very modern phone, the camera is incredible, and unlike previous generations of Samsung phones I've had, this thing is still running very smoothly. Honestly, I am hesitating on seeing a reason to "upgrade" to the S8, S8+, or Note8 coming up since my phone is working so beautifully. I will say that Samsung has made a repeat buyer out of me and while I still prefer to remain brand agnostic, I will definitely look at their products with confidence when I am shopping for new phones.
To be honest, I purchased this phone June 5th and have had nothing but problems with it since I bought it. The biggest problem, the battery and charging problems. Every time I let the phone get to 40% or less battery life, and plug it in, it automatically just shuts down completely. Not sleep, not screen off, SHUT DOWN. It has been crazy annoying but i dealt with it since it is the "best phone out there". Next, the always on screen. Sometimes it is literally ALWAYS ON. screen is on, at the main home screen, not the lock screen. Anyone can get into the phone, browse away and make calls if I a not watching. Also, in this state, if it isn't charging and I put it in my pocket, it actually heats my leg uncomfortably. The only solution is to hit the power button to put it to the lock screen. Very frustrating but I dealt with it because it is "the best phone out there". Now this morning i awoke to find the phone powered off. I assume the battery had dies so I plugged it in. Normally, as soon as it is plugged in you would see a circle with a lightning bolt inside that appears, letting you know it is at zero percent but it is charging. The LED light would also blink at the top....nothing. No LED light, no circle with lightning bolt, nothing. I then proceeded to spend 3 hours looking on the internet, calling Samsung, everything to try and rectify the issue. It just will not turn on. So now I get on the phone with Samsung and they have me go through 20 minutes of attempts to resolve the issue, the same things I just spent 3 hours trying. Still nothing. I also read in their warranty for cell phones (see attached screenshot) that "During the applicable warranty period, provided the Product is returned in accordance with the terms of this Standard Limited Warranty, Samsung will repair or replace the Product, at Samsung’s sole option, without charge." So i figured they would just ask the woman to overnight a replacement of this 5 month old phone and I would ship this broken one back, done....nope. The woman on the phone refused to even acknowledge replacing was an option even though I read her word for word what the warranty stated. The only option was to send it to them, wait for them to fix it, and then send it back. All of which will take 2 weeks! I replacement can be shipped in 2 days!. I asked her nicely again to replace it as I cannot be without a phone for 2 weeks, no; she wouldn't even consider it since she didn't believe it was in the warranty in the first place. After a 3rd try to get her to understand she simply got quiet as she refused to even discuss it with me any longer. Very disrespectful and lack of understanding of my situation or their warranty apparently but also very disrespectful to a customer who has spent a fortune on Samsung products. So now I am sending the phone back to Samsung to let them spend 2 weeks to repair and send it back. In the interim I plan to buy another phone THAT WILL NOT BE SAMSUNG. I have been a Samsung fan for 4 years now and have spent close to $20,000 on phones, TVs, all new kitchen appliances. To be so mistreated after all of this loyalty is unbelievable. After tolerating all of nuisances with this phone and then to be told they cannot replace it but it must be sent in for repair for 2 weeks is just unacceptable. This is the reason why Samsung has peaked for me and will now be going downhill. As far I am concerned there will never be another Samsung product in my home and I will actively tell whoever will listen to stay away from this company who does not respect their customers loyalty. Unless this company makes this right I will get the phone back ,sell it and never even consider another Samsung product, period. The aggravation alone is worth 10 of these phones that cost Samsung less than 300 dollars to manufacturer. Losing a 20k customer is going to hurt. Further I plan to post this review anywhere I can so that as many people considering Samsung products understand the company and lack of customer focus.
I owned the very first Samsung Note 1 when it came out around 8 years ago and I just loved it. My next opportunity to get another one happened right as the Note 7 came out...which happened to be the model which ended up being recalled TWICE. I was so disappointed because I LOVED the S-Pen and it's functionality. The very first Note was nice, but the pen was still new and had some issues with accuracy among other things. After several different versions, those issues had been dealt with and the pen was now just as accurate as writing with a pen or pencil. I went into the Samsung store the other day not sure if I was going to get the S10 + or the Note. I debated in my head over and over and looked at the differences and pluses and minuses and decided to go with the Note. Sure, the in-screen fingerprint reader is pretty dang cool, and the larger screen-to-body ratio is better than ever, but dang it, the S10 didn't have that pen. So I went with the Note. I am VERY happy I did. I have been a mobile junkie for a long time. I keep up on technology and when I researched the two, found the major differences between both phones were pretty minor. Speed was negligible at best. They both were running Android Pie (which I LOVE BTW) and were remarkably snappy and efficient. Samsung has come a long way since the S6+ I got many years ago--which I also loved. The edge feature is less pronounced than it was back then, but that's okay. The edge panel is still useful, but if I'm being honest, it's more of a gimmick than anything. The truth is, I DO use it, but not that much. Despite that, I still love the curved edges. I know not everyone does, but I think they look cool and it gives the screen a more immersive feel in my opinion. My phone updated to Pie almost immediately after being turned on. I must say, it is a nice upgrade. Prior to getting the Note I had the LG G7, which was okay. I even had done my best to convince myself it was actually pretty good, but the truth is, I never truly liked it after having owned the S6, S7 and S8. LG's abysmal track record of updating continues to disappoint. Every friend who owned an android had received the Pie update, but here it is August 2019 and even though LG promised quicker updates and that we'd receive android 9.0 in the first quarter of the year, it never materialized (big shocker). I was disappointed in the phones performance, too. At the very first, it seemed pretty good...but noticed early on issues that I had never seen with my Samsung phones. Suffice it to say, upgrading to the Note was a nice change of pace. Samsung One UI is surprisingly smooth and impressively less intrusive than their previous versions of Android have been...even though I never really disliked it to begin with. While it isn't pure Android, One UI still operates wonderfully and is geared more towards a smoother user experience than ever before. Many intuitive additions have made it better, as well. Couple that with the new gesture controls and I love it more than I ever thought I would. Whether you like Android or iOS, the ONE major thing that people point out the most as being the best feature of Android is customization, and the Note 9 provides that and much more. Want to rearrange the navigation buttons at the bottom of the screen? Sure, no prob. Want to get rid of them in favor of gesture controls? Go for it. By the way, I will be the first to admit Samsung borrowed the gestures from iOS, and I have no problem with that since iOS has borrowed just as much from Android over the years. It's only fair. I was worried I wouldn't like gestures, but after less than a day of using them, I was hooked. It gives you more screen real estate, too. Albeit not a huge amount, but more is more, right? They also work perfectly, too. Instead of pressing the button to go back, or to the home screen or recent apps, just swipe up from the left, middle or right portion of the very bottom of the screen. They work great and this is far and away my favorite new aspect of Android Pie. If I'm being honest, I am not a huge fan of iris scan to unlock my phone. Now adding the combination of using iris and face recognition helps improve accuracy and definitely IS faster, but I wish that Samsung would hurry up with the face ID more similar to iOS, which is the best out there bar none and is MUCH faster than Iris/face unlock on my Note. All things considered, I'd stick with it and also have a fingerprint reader too than not one at all like iPhones are forced to deal without. The fingerprint reader is still accurate and VERY fast, so if that doesn't bug you, then at least that is a nice option. I do wish they had placed the fingerprint reader on back about a good inch lower. Being so close to the camera lenses can sometimes make it a pain to not smudge the cameras trying to feel around for it. You'll get it right after a bit of practice, but I still accidentally hit it now and again, so keep that in mind. Bixby is as useless as ever. I'm glad that they now make it easy to remap the Bixby button so it can open Google instead, which is infinitely better. Don't get me wrong, there are some things Bixby does that is every bit as convenient as Google, but in every single instance I've ever tried it, Google was faster. Sometimes MUCH faster. Not sure why their own AI is so far behind and it never seems to get better, but oh well. At least the option is there, right? The speakers are SO much better than every previous Samsung I have ever used. Are they the best out there? Sorry but no. They finally have stereo speakers which is a move in the right direction. The bottom speaker facing down vs the earpiece facing towards you makes that experience a bit un-even, but hey, nothings perfect, right? It's still much better than my S8 and every other phone I have personally used in the past. Yes, the phone is big. It can--at times--be a challenge to navigate with one hand. Thankfully Samsung gives you the ability to use it one-handed where you swipe up diagonally from the corner and it shrinks the screen to whichever side you swiped it from for simple and easy one-handed use. With that being said, I wish many options were closer to the bottom of the screen for easier reach with my thumb instead towards the very top of the screen. I've heard this was one area where Samsung had specifically worked to make easier, but personally I haven't really seen how that is the case, even with the newest update. Even so, that changes nothing--I still love my phone and knew this was going to be the case when I bought it, so the only way you should be upset is if you bought the phone without having done enough research to make sure you were aware of stuff like this in advance...in which case, that's on you. Keep in mind this big phone has an absolutely gorgeous screen that does not disappoint. It gets plenty bright and simply looks brilliant. Watching video is a joy and I love how you can record video and use it for your lock screen, even video you shoot in 4K, though I'm not sure why you'd do that because since the phone screen isn't 4K there is no need to use it for your lock screen. Full HD is good enough and looks awesome and adds an extra level of personal customization that iOS cannot match. The S-Pen is truly a work of art this time. If you have time, Google artwork on Note phones. You'll be amazed the level of artistic ability the pen now offers. It really is like writing with a regular pen or pencil. It now has over 4,000 levels of pressure points to increase it's accuracy and smoothness and boy can you tell. The moment you eject the pen, you immediately have your options come out with a cool little animation. You have Create Note, View all notes, Smart select, Screen write, Live message, Translate, Penup and Add shortcuts. I love how you can pull the pen out without turning the phone on and you can take a quick note directly on the screen and save it without having to turn on anything. VERY convenient. I also love the Live message feature. Create your own GIFs that are personalized and look great. I love this feature. The reality is that the S-Pen is the ONE feature which truly sets the Note apart from almost all other devices (save a few LG devices which are generally very poor by comparison). If you don't plan to use the S-Pen then there really is no point in getting a Note device at all, really. If you don't feel you'd use it, I would recommend getting something else. In business these days that S-Pen can be absolutely invaluable. From taking quick notes to signing a document, highlighting almost anything and even copying something that other phones are incapable of doing. The uses are really quite vast--but only if you really plan to take advantage of them, otherwise it's a waste if I'm being honest. Keep that in mind before you buy. Performance is very impressive. I have noticed a very noticeable jump in performance over my G7 (which wasn't hard to do since after 8 months, it was so disappointingly slow and buggy that I will most likely never own another LG phone. When I say impressive performance though, I really mean it. Apps open quickly. Getting into settings is a very quick and simple procedure that requires only a few steps. I love the themes that you can download from Samsung. Some are truly awesome and you can find some really cool free one's, too. Even new icon packages and Always On Display options make this the most customizable phone I've ever seen. The camera is fantastic. Is it the best on the market? Probably not. However when it came out it was one of the best you could buy. Updates have only improves this. I'm still waiting for the Night Mode that Samsung put into the S10 which is supposedly coming to the Note 9 and S9's. Wide angle and even AR emoji's (Samsungs version of Animoji's from iOS), which are not bad, but not quite as smooth as you'll get with apple devices. I love the fact that this will be the last Note to probably come with a 3.5mm headphone jack since the Note 10 has officially dumped it in favor of a slightly larger battery (4300 mAh over the 4000 mAh in the Note 9). I have several truly wireless earbuds and with bluetooth 5.0 audio really does sound pretty great, so it's not a huge loss, but I can still use my Bose wired earbuds if I so choose which is a nice option since they still have killer audio. For some this will be a big deal not having the headphone jack, but for me it's not a deal breaker. If the Note 10 had been available when I went in to get the Note 9 I definitely would have gotten it, with or without the jack. But it's something to keep in mind for those who care about it. The expansion slot is still there, but I doubt I'll really need it since I have never used more than 40 GB of memory ever on any phone I've owned. Again, it's nice to have just in case. All in all I am VERY happy with the Note 9 and since it was such a dramatic upgrade over the LG G7 it's almost laughable by comparison. No offense to LG but your promise to improve the frequency of updates, but then no actual ACTION on your part just makes you look like a big liar. It seems like every year LG's slice of the mobile market gets a little smaller and yet their ability to innovate and improve continues to fall by the wayside along with unfulfilled promises...and with that being the case, they need to expect that this trend will only accelerate in the future. Sorry guys. The last two times I gambled on buying one of your phones (the G4 and the G7) I have been severely disappointed (though I preferred the G4 overall more than the G7). Samsung is in a class by itself...though I must say, I was disappointed that they didn't offer at least a 90 Hz screen (like the OnePlus 7 Pro) with the new Note 10. Maybe next year? For those wondering whether or not the Note 9 is still worth the buy, I can emphatically say that YES it is. Since the Note 10 just was officially announced, you may even get the Note 9 at a significant price reduction so that is another reason to consider it, especially if you're looking to save a few dollars--and considering what the Note 10 costs, even the smaller version, that can be a significant savings. Good luck and I hope my review was helpful in some small way.
12/21/2019 Update - i have only had this for three months now and feel i did make the right decision on getting this model. it enables me to do so much more than any phone i have had before. my hope that i would be able to use this phone in place of my pc for many tasks has worked out better than i'd hoped for. the time i spend working on the computer has easily dropped by half. this really is a great phone in so many respects. Before purchasing this phone the first thing I did was read through and watch a number of reviews for this phone from tech sources, zines, etc. Due to the cost of this item I did a lot more research going into it than I would for most other purchases. I wanted a phone that was well made, would last, could link up easily with my pc or even take its place for many functions especially camera and video. I got all this and more out of this phone! No wonder it is referred to as the 'swiss army knife' for smart phones. Should also note i wasn't surprised to see that every online review of the top android phones for the year had this phone rated #1. Design is fantastic! It looks even better in hand than in photos. Consequently there is no mistaking this phone for others. The screen has lightly slopped or curved edges which complete the near bezel-less design. It is as close to an all display screen phone as I could find. The structure is solid aluminum with no flex whatsoever. Gorilla glass all around and water resistant beyond what most phones are. This can supposedly be submerged in feet of water for many minutes without issue. Overall quality is as good as I expected. It is as close to a perfectly designed phone as I could find at this time. The screen is the largest you can get currently in the U.S. It is large enough for someone like myself with vision problems to see clearly, but not so big as to feel over-sized. See my attached photo of different phones side by side. The resolution and colors are jaw dropping good. I can see details in google earth on my phone zoomed in that I cannot see even when using my pc on a 65” 4K screen. That degree of improvement really surprised me. You can adjust the screen resolution from 1080P to 4K UHD+. When researching this phone I saw several ding the phone for having a 60Hz refresh rate and not higher? While higher refresh rates can be nice for gaming otherwise I am very happy with how snappy the screen is to respond as is. All in all I love every aspect of the display. The camera is arguable the best you can get when combined with the stock photo and video editing apps. Be it wide, telephoto, you name it this phone has it. The weakest area here is night photography. Currently there are a couple other flagship phones that do night shots better. That said when it comes to daytime shots those others don’t fare nearly so well. There is so much you can do, customize when it comes to taking photos and vids that words just fail. None of that matters if you don’t have enough space to store your media. With this I have no worries with the base 256GB of storage coupled with an SD card I have 758GB currently on my phone! They killed off the headphone jack! Yep it’s gone on the note10+ but not the note10? Lots of excuses as to why but real reason is they want you to buy their Samsung buds. I tried a generic brand dongle for my wired earbuds and it failed miserably. I then tried the Samsung version and got very good audio quality. IMHO that absolutely should’ve been included with the phone. Currently I’m using both my Bose QC20’s which are wired and a pair of wireless Amazon buds. They both sound excellent, no complaints whatsoever for audio quality. I still want the audio jack back though. Battery life and charging are the best I have ever had. Comes with a 28 watt charger that will take me from 80-100% in about 11 minutes. Even after a hard day’s use I have yet to dip below 50%. From my research it states and others have confirmed a 0-100% charge time of one hour. Unless you travel a lot, live in airports I don’t see the need for the $50 optional charger that won't do much more IMHO. The battery is the largest capacity I could get in a phone here and was also a factor in my purchase. It has never once gotten hot to the touch. Only a couple times has it gotten slightly warm and that was when I had it charging while using as a video monitor at the same time. It has the fastest wireless charging rate of any Samsung phone at 15W. The smaller note10 is 10W and the smaller of the Galaxy Note series is 5W for comparison. You can also do reverse charging, one of two currently made phones that can do that. Keep in mind doing so you get a slow charge but it works if ever needed. You get an 855 processor, vapor chamber cooling, base 256 GB of memory and 8 GB of ram. You also have expandable storage making it a true storage monster. As said great for anyone taking photos or vids. With all that underneath the hood you can truly multitask. Open as many apps as you want, I’ve never slowed it down one bit. It has enough horses to work easily with its system to connect to pc’s. There you can use your phone through your pc. You can grab and drag pics or files from one to another. All my office apps work on it. I should make some mention of the S Pen. It is great for doing any work on the phone. It enables precise work. Be it photo editing or just clicking on a box on a website, it absolutely improves the entire experience. You can do other things with but my take those are kind of gimmicky. The software, apps are very impressive. Coming off a near stock android experience it took me a bit to get comfortable with OneUI 1.0 meshed with android 9 but now I love it. I have already had several updates with OneUI 1.5 now on my phone. Android 10 has already gone out to some with the rest of us by years end. But back to the custom software, there are so many many things and ways to customize this phone to fit your specific wants and needs I cannot say enough good. Things like being able to set a safe location so your phone doesn’t lock at home. Similarly set it up so it’s safe when connected to a Bluetooth device, for me I set our vehicles as that so they don’t lock inside. My favorite of all is the Edge lighting. That takes the place of the old flashing LED notification light. Edge lighting is what you want from it. Set which apps you want to use with it besides calls. Get a text message the led show is on or not you customize it all. Colors, how it displays, where, how long, how wide. It not only looks amazing but it is much more visible than just one lonely LED light. You can even minimize it to just go around the camera punch hole. Security via pin, pic or sonar sensor. Samsung pay which unlike google pay will work on old stripe type machines. So you can use the Samsung pay feature in spots you’d never think you could. Seriously there are so many ways to customize the software I am still learning new things even now. Things I didn’t like, no 3.5mm audio jack made worse by no included dongle. The phone is beautiful to look at but the thing is slippery as all get out to hold onto thanks to being all glass. I put a case on the back immediately for just that reason. I don’t like having Samsung pay on the bottom to activate with a swipe up. Problem is if you have gestures enabled half the time instead of going to your home screen, especially if locked, you end up opening the pay app instead. S Pen gimmicks to me are a waste. My edge lighting didn’t work at first. I ended up having to get the edge lighting fix and edge lighting plus from the galaxy store (free). Point being it should have worked straight out of the box but minor gripe. They put a screensaver on at the factory, unlike any phone I’ve had before, and didn’t mention anywhere in the docs or packaging it was there. So I thought it was just another piece of the many protective clear plastic stickies you remove when unboxing, it wasn’t. They fixed that self-inflicted issue on the Samsung fold but not with the Note10+? Minor gripes aside this is the best, most capable phone I’ve ever owned. It is one of the rare phones out that truly allows you to supplement many things before you could only do on a PC. The extra screen size is not wasted. I don’t notice the camera cutout and that extra size makes it much easier to use with my poor vision. This phone is one I really can do work on without difficulty. I love the screen, the look, the hardware, the imaging setup. I would recommend this phone to anyone at this time based on my personal experience with it even at this price point. It does so much and is built so well. I fully expect it to stand up to the test of time. **FYI - The Note line is merging with the Galaxy S series to be formally announced 2/2020 along with a massive bump in the camera sensor size.
The good: -Really nice design and great looking phone -Probably the best hardware on any flagship phone at this time 11/2019 - fullscreen bezeless - large sturdy screen that's durable and the body is quite resistant to bending for a phone this size - supports adding sd card storage of 1tab sdcards extending the 256gb + 1tb total storage = you'll never have to worry about running out of room for photos and videos on your phone ever again - 4k video, slow motion, and super slow motion -video motion stabilization is really good - snapdragon 855 processor means its fast really fast - nice stylus pen and can act as remote for some phone functions like camera controls - it has a thin film screen protector installed by default - you can set default storage of camera and downloads to sdcard and save your phone storage - Multitasking is very fast and very smooth - wireless charging and wireless power transfer The bad: - The onscreen fingerprint reader sucks, it doesn't work with most screen protectors and even when it does it will fail at least 30% of the time and is exceedingly frustrating if you need to unlock the phone in a jiffy for photos or videos - the facial recognition so fails about that much and if you change your hairstyle or wear glasses and then stop it will not recognize you sometimes. - the facial recognition requires good lighting or it will fail almost 100% of the time in the dark, this means if you're out on the streets or at a festival with minimal lighting it will not recognize your face - it has a thin film screen protector installed by default that could interfere with additional screen protectors unless you remove it, but you'd have to know there was one in the first place which is not mentioned - the default samsung camera software is inferior n picture taking to even the pixel 3 camera, I installed the google cam and use that instead of the Samsung camera in normal photo situations. The Samsung cam over saturates and loses detail in photos where the google can will capture more realistic results with more details and less photoshopped results that make the photos look almost fake. - The default samsung messaging app is also really bad, it will compress any images and videos to such a degree that it will be totally blurry of you send things over SMS. It will also limit the size you can send beyond what other phones allow. Images you send will be subpar and pixelated. I had to switch to the google messenger downloaded from the play store; it is superior in every way and I can send things over like I was able to on my iPhone; the quality is much better than the compressed mess the Samsung default message app was doing - the navigation swipes are hard to do sometimes due to the size of the screen and the keyboard layouts are not well designed for one handed use even in one handed mode, I had a much better one handed experience on my note4. - this phone is near impossible to operate with just one hand most of the time - the placement of the camera in the top left corner means when you try to take photos in landscape mode your fingers can easily obstruct a portion of the camera and show up in your photos. They should've kept it like the S10 where it's in the middle of the phone so your fingers would be a lot less likely to get in the way of the camera lense. I haven't owned a note since the note 4, so for me this was a huge improvement in most areas and I was waiting for a fullscreen bezeless phone with an onscreen fingerprint reader so that's why I chose the note 10+ over the pixel 4xl. I also wanted the flagship phone with all the bells and whistles so I chose it over the s10+. I switched from a note to iPhone and being pissed at iPhone's limitations after 5 years, mostly related to storage and random apps disappearing into icloud, I decided I needed to go back to android and was waiting for the right phone. I am overall very satisfied with the phone in the $600-700 price range, but wouldn't get it in the $1000 range due to some big flaws I mentioned above. I'd buy this phone again in this price range because i still it's great and in most ways its superior to the pixel and iPhone, but I think samsung could've done much better on this phone especially since this is their flagship model. Oh also Bixby is annoying and I turned that off right away. If this was full retail of over $1000 I'd sadly go back to using an iphone or pay $600-700 for a pixel 4xl.
Sorry, this video is unsupported on this browser.  This phone is so cool and surprisingly unsurprisingly a nice upgrade from my iPhone 7 Plus. Firstly, I love the colour and the back of the phone, I love how iridescent it is 😍 I chose the White colour because I thought that you could see the other colours much better but that isn’t true, I got a look at the other colours and on each of them, the iridescence is just the same if not better! The features are really cool. Face Unlock which recognises my face even when I make the most ugliest faces and whenever I wear my glasses. It makes the screen brighter for the second that it needs to recognise your face and unlock the phone. The Fingerprint Scanner/Reader isn’t too good. I’d say that it’s just okay. It does read your print some of the time/most of the times, but it is a little slow. It definitely could improve. The triple cameras are super cool 😎 The pictures come out fine and they look nice. The live focus mode aka portrait mode (if you’re on an iPhone) isn’t as good as my 7 Plus, but, what can I say 🤷🏾‍♀️ At least it’s there and if you really mess around with it, you’ll have beautiful portrait pictures. To me, they just don’t look the same nor feel the same as the iPhones. BUT what you can do with live focus mode that you can’t do in the iPhone (At least in the iPhones 1-7Plus based on my knowledge) is take front facing portraits using the selfie camera, which is so convenient and nice 😌 I don’t have to turn my phone around and aim it at certain angles of myself anymore to take beautiful portrait pictures of my face. I have pictures of my beautiful portraits of my face using the selfie camera and of my cat using the back cameras so that you can see for yourself 🙂 They also have a pro mode which is for the pros. There’s a picture of a flower that I took in pro mode. The phone is pretty light to hold which is nice, you might want to buy another case instead of the one that comes with it, that case is clear and is mostly for slight protection of the back but mainly for show. Also get screen protectors for the screen so that in the case of you accidentally dropping the phone and it lands on it’s face 😖 it’ll hopefully be protected and not crack because it has a screen protector on 😼 The phone has a feature where the screen is more sensitive while it has a protector on so that it still responds just as good as if it doesn’t have one on. I think you go to Settings, Display, and Advanced Feature?! If not, then you can just search “Sensitivity” in the Settings Search Bar and it’ll pop up. The screen size is WAY bigger than my iPhone’s and that makes watching YouTube and my groups of Youtubers (CallMeKevin) really nice. Watching Netflix and or Hulu too is great! Just browsing the web or reading audiobooks is nice and good on my eyes because of how big the screen is 😄 With it being a Samsung phone you get the new One UI which was so cool to experience and to have now, the dark mode is nice and the additional features that it comes with is just great. I previously had a Samsung phone too ( Galaxy J5 Pro ) along with my iPhone and it’s just nice to be able to hopefully use the new “Call and Message Continuity” feature that would let me use my J5 Pro to text or answer incoming calls if my main phone isn’t with me and that one is. (If they decide to bring CMC to the J5 Pro) Through WiFi, so kind of like iMessage and FaceTime 🤣 Though if you have a newer galaxy it should already work 😁 The Always On Display is a cool feature and it sometimes works on my phone. I think it’s a personal problem with my phone though because I keep changing the themes on it all the time 😆 so if you want the Always On Display feature to work, stick to one theme for at least a while 😂 There also is a feature where you can have a 15 second video clip that plays as your wallpaper for the lock screen on your phone 😯 That blew my mind and was so cool! 🤯 I experimented with it by having videos of my cat and boyfriend on the lock screen which was so cute ☺️ It’s a lot of customisation tools and themes that you can do with this phone and with Android in general. Unlike iPhone 😆 which makes me happy because I get bored of looking at the same wallpaper, icons, fonts, and style of things after a while 😒 Bixby is here and she can be helpful almost just as much as she can be annoying, she doesn’t understand my voice as much as Siri does and they have an option where you can summon her by pressing and holding the power button which is stupid and annoying. I’m used to pressing and holding the power button to turn off the phone or reset it, not summon my personal assistant. You also have the Google assistant waiting for you if you want her to assist you. She’s far more understanding and much more smarter than Siri and Bixby combined. You summon her by tapping and holding the home button. The buttons, can also be customisable as to which order you want them in, or, you can choose to not have them at all and use swipe gestures like on the iPhone X and up or the newest iPads. I personally like the buttons and keep them because they work more better than the swipe gestures. The default Samsung Keyboard isn’t as smart as the default iPhone keyboard so I downloaded Gboard and typing has since been better and less annoying Battery life has lasted almost 2 DAYS when I sometimes forget to put it on the charger, even after I’ve been watching YouTube, sending Snaps, and browsing Instagram; which is fantastic and greatly convenient 🔋🔌😌 That’s about it with the phone 😸 Overall it’s a great phone with the latest features for 2019 (minus the wireless charging and all that) that still has a headphone jack! 🤩 It can withstand droplets if water from rain and stuff but it’s not waterproof, so make sure you keep it away from bigger water. It’s a great price, on other sites from other sellers they charge much more. But this seller had the cheapest price when I bought the phone. Even on the official Samsung website, it costs more than from this seller. It costs $300 on there 🤭🤫
Wow, what a difference a year makes. While last year's S5 took many steps in the right direction(being somewhat waterproof with better material and craftsmanship), it still wasn't there to make it a mouth-watering phone yet, like what HTC did when they first introduced their One M7, or whenever Apple introduces a new iPhone size. This year, Samsung has finally learned from both of their competitors, and made a phone that has all the good qualities of both, plus some of their own, specifically these "edges." - finally, this is the Galaxy S that you've always wanted and been dreaming of. I LOVE my S6 Edge! When the Note Edge first came out, I thought that was the spiffiest thing ever. Not just that single edge on the screen, but also that lovely design and form factor - it was just a BEAUTIFUL phone. Now with the S6, I get twice the edge, in a smaller form factor that's a lot easier to handle and use. * The very first thing you notice when you handle the phone, is its new design and form factor - finally Samsung has completed their transformation of getting rid of all that ugly plastic parts. Now it is just all glass and metal, and now it is truly beautiful. The metal fully wraps around the edges of the phone. The back is beautiful, the sides are beautiful - heck, even the buttons are beautiful. It feels great in the hand, and oozes style and sophistication. And specifically, the S6 Edge is just the coolest-looking phone by far. The S6 regular might be the best functioning/overall phone right now, but to add another $100-130 to obtain something that is so unique and cool is a worthy sacrifice to me. The edges make the phone feel very angular in your hands, but I think it provides better grip, and you can get used to it very easily. Besides, most of us will cover it with a case anyways, so it should not be an issue. * The very next thing you notice, of course, is the screen. I am continually pleasantly surprised at the evolution of Samsung's AMOLED technology - it has now became the best screen in the industry, hands down. I used to defend the LCD technology of the HTC M7, and at that point it was in fact overall superior to the Samsung S4 because the AMOLED then had issues in the sun, and color reproduction(it was too saturated and not natural). But now, they have fixed those issues, and the S6's screen is just quite simply the best. If you don't believe it, just compare an LG/Samsung OLED TV to any LED TVs today. I still think 5.1 inches for a screen of a PHONE is still too big, but overall, for what smartphones represent nowadays, it is acceptable - we have conditioned ourselves to accept the bigger sizes of smartphones(I remember when I first held a 4.2" smartphone when it first came out - the HTC HD2 - and thought, "what the h3ll is this monstrosity??"). * It doesn't hurt that Samsung boosted up the resolution to 1440 x 2560 pixels, which is approximately 577 ppi in pixel density. Although this is quite overkill right now, it's always nice to have the latest and greatest technology - that's the reason why we buy these overpriced phones in the first place, isn't it? It is also very bright, and sunlit legibility is excellent. Color reproduction is quite accurate, and like the S5, you can choose different color modes to suit your liking. * An important aspect to discuss is the battery life, now more than ever because there is no removable back cover to make replacing the battery easily like before, not to mention there is no microSD slot for you to add memory space to your phone. Comparatively, the S6 Edge is supposed to last a little less than the S6 regular, which I've read is less than last year's S5. But I'm one of those who are always around a charger, and I always carry external battery packs in my backpack when I travel, so that's never a concern. Seriously, who even buys an extra battery anymore - which you can only use for a single specific phone model - when your external battery can charge ANY and ALL phones and tablets?? This scenario only makes sense if your work is so demanding that you don't have extra time to charge the phone, and need to swap batteries IMMEDIATELY. I don't think that scenario is realistic nowadays when external batteries are so small, light, and cheap nowadays. My S6 Edge goes from 100% at 10 am to about 20% at 10 pm with moderate use - so no complaints there. I get home, plug it up, and there are no issues. * What's better this year, is the wireless charging standards are already built into the phone, so you can just buy a charging pad for about $50 and feel even more cool. * The missing microSD expansion issue is a legitimate concern, since everyone loves to store their music, videos/movies, and all their apps in their phones. Now, you have to be selective and choose what to include or not. But I also have a Samsung Tab Pro, so I put my videos and games in their, while my phone carries my music and apps. This situation is perfect for me when I travel, and would only be a deal-breaker for people who always want to hoard everything in their phone. * The Samsung user interface called TouchWiz used to be bloated and sluggish. It would slow down(navigating throughout the phone, switching between apps, and using the apps themselves) once you start installing more and more apps and put more and more shortcuts and widgets on the home screens. Worse, they would cram all their Samsung apps on you, which for the most part are inferior to their Google counterparts. They came preinstalled, and are un-installable - you can only downgrade and disable them, but you can't take them off completely. Now, with the new TouchWiz working in conjunction with Google 5.0 Lollipop, things are a lot smoother and faster. There are also fewer of those Samsung apps - now you have the option of downloading them, but they no longer come pre-installed and wasting your space, which is now more precious than ever. * Another "con" is that the S6 family is no longer IP67 water-proof/dust-proof like the S5 family anymore. That is quite a bummer as that was a huge relief for those times when we regret certain actions to our phones but could get away with it. Now, we have to go back to being extra careful. * Finally, the camera: It is great, what can I say? This area of technology will keep continuing to progress and advance for the next 5-10 years at least, but we have already came so far. I would go as far to say that besides dedicated DSLR cameras, you would not find better compact cameras like these for under $500 from a dedicated camera. And to have it be already included in your phone is quite amazing, when you really think about it. This year, it even includes optical image stabilization, which you can see actually working as you pan/tilt/shake the camera. I used to buy $300-500 super-zoom point-and-shoot cameras for my travels back in the days of 7-8 years ago, and they didn't come out half as good as what this camera can do. And there are built-in enhancements and edits that you can do straight from the camera that are quite robust and powerful. So, why did I say the evolution is near complete, and not yet? Well, besides the theoretical ideal that nothing is perfect, to the practical ideal like things like the camera continue to improve for the foreseeable future, I felt that while Samsung took some big strides forward, they also took some steps back. For instance, by making it non-plastic, they open themselves to being less experienced in sealing it up, so they couldn't make it waterproof anymore. In the same vein, they can no longer make the back plate removable to replace the battery(although it is not impossible - you can actually get around it, but then you would negate Samsung's warranty). And I'm guessing they didn't have enough research time in the metal production assembly good enough to include holes for the microSD slot. So what can they practically improve on to make this as near perfect as possible? Make it waterproof like before(or better), and if you can't make the back plate removable, then improve on the battery life, and allow for the microSD expansion slot. And keep improving on TouchWiz, and get the Google updates out quicker. Once those are set - and because we know you will always continue to improve on the processor(phone power and graphics power), the screen(resolution, image quality, color reproduction, brightness, sunlight legibility), and the camera, next year's edition should make it as near-perfect as possible for the S family, and maybe then after that you can start a whole new phone family, and bring out those bendable/roll-able screen technologies we know you're already working on, or something even more outrageous. So overall, while there are certain niggles which make this phone take a step back, there are enough advances to make this a true 5-star phone.
First, let me say that I have owned every single Samsung Note since the first one all the way to the Note 5 now and after 7 months of daily use on may Note 5 it is by far and above my favorite cell phone I have ever owned! Here are some of the things I like and don't like about it: Pros: 1. The phone has held up incredibly well after 7 months despite being dropped a bunch of times by myself and my 3 year old toddler. There are no cosmetic damages to the phone or screen defects and I have even dropped it in the sink with the water running once and it was fine. 2. Battery life versus other note phones is great although I would say the Note 4 had the best battery life of the whole series, but it had a bigger battery so that makes a lot of sense. 3. The screen resolution is great. I toggle between this phone and a Iphone 6 plus and this is by far my choice. Screen is just brighter for reading the web and doing gaming. 4. I got a GEAR VR in december and fell in love with it. Since it only works with this phone I figured why not. I was concerned it would mess up the battery or overheat the device and I have experienced no problems with daily use for 4 months. 5. It's well made and doesn't feel cheap. It has the same premium feel as the Iphone 6 plus only it is not slippery on the back in the way that the iphone is. 6. It charges super fast. I use the included HI-SPEED charger that comes with it and I can get a 50% charge in like 30 minutes! It also works really well with various hi speed car charges that run on 2.0-2.4 amps which the phone can handle for hi-speed charging. 7. Hardly any lag ever despite how many windows I have open. The extra RAM really makes a difference while viewing videos or toggling through a webpage really fast. 8. The glass is realllllly hard to scratch. I had a Zagg tempered glass screen protector on it for 5 months until I bought the GEAR-VR and decided it would be a good idea to take it off to use it (not knowing that the Oculus app ran internally so it did not matter if the glass was covered with a good screen protector.) Needless to say, it has been 3 months and I have yet to scratch the screen with the protector taken off. After using the delicate Iphone I was almost conditioned to purchase the tempered glass on every new phone and paying $40+ at best buy plus their geek squad $7 fee was getting old. I don't think enough people realize how hard this Note 5 screen is to scratch. I have it in my pocket all the time with various cases on it and its flawless. It's probably rubbed against coins, my keys and other junk. I even dropped it this morning at the gym on the treadmill and it was unscathed. 9. The S-PEN is awesome! I never really used it before this phone and I have since taken to it. It's really nice to be able to sign a document for business without printing it out, wasting paper, scanning it, saving it and reattaching it. I also write stuff on my own photos to remember where I was sometimes or what I was doing that day so I don't have to take the time to go into the details information section on the photos. 10. The camera! It's 16 megapixel and it really is better than the Iphones and even most click and shoot cameras on the market today. Obviously you're not going to get DSLR quality without a DSLR lens. That being said, I have taken incredible low light and nighttime photos. The Autofocus mode set in "pro mode" is great for daily use. The zoom feature takes beautiful macro shots all the time too. I have nothing but great things to say about the camera. When you put it in "selfie mode" you can hold it away from you and just say the word CHEESE and 3 seconds later it captures the photo. I bought into the phase and got a selfie stick and that makes it really cool. Overall: It's a winner. I have had people offer to trade me IPHONE 6S plus models for it and I refused. The camera is a game changer, the design and feel and durability make it the best phone; Samsung or Apple that I have had to date.
I have been using the Samsung Galaxy S10 for a couple of months now. My plan allows for an upgrade each year so I have been using Galaxy’s since the S4, with the exception of one year with the LG G4. So, I know what to expect from the Galaxy. Each upgrade through the S9 was a pleasant experience. That ended with the S10. Let’s get the good stuff out of the way. As expected, the phone is faster and the battery lasts longer than my aging S9, although it is not overly impressive for a new phone. It does everything else you would expect a new phone to do. Many other fans of the S10 have reported on what the phone does well so I will not spend time getting into that. I did however, take into consideration the good things in my XX star rating. There are two matters that totally take away from the joy of my new S10: the positioning of the Lock button and the finger print sensor. The lock button was moved upward and is much harder to reach. I use my left hand most of the time and when I try to lock the phone, which requires pressing with my index finger, my thumb, which is on the other side of the phone hits the volume button at the same time and the phone does not lock. So, I have to pay close attention every time I want to lock the phone. There are many similar comments from other people and some folks reply in defense of Samsung that there must be a reason for the new placement such as the battery is bigger or something. In the end, I don’t care about the reason. If an auto manufacturer placed the steering wheel in the trunk, I couldn’t care less what the reason is, its still inconvenient. The placement of the lock button is so bad for me I had to find a workaround; and now with the help of an app, I swipe from the left edge of the screen to lock the phone. My next and biggest complaint is the fingerprint sensor. This thing is a pain. I totally miss the S9 fingerprint sensor despite its location on the back of the phone. Unless you have at least a bit of clamminess on your fingers, the S10 will not sense the touch. It keeps telling you to press harder. On my S9, I seldom had to use the keypad to unlock the phone. With the S10, I have to use the keypad around 1 in 4 or 5 times. When I was setting up the finger print sensor the first time, my fingers were had no clamminess to them and the phone kept telling me to press harder. I thought I was going to break the screen. No matter how hard I pressed, it kept saying, “press harder.” What a pain. I even have the sensitivity turned up for using a screen protector. Lastly, the knock on the screen to wake the phone is a good idea that LG has used for years. For some reason, Samsung just doesn’t do it nearly as well. Many times I have to knock repeatedly to get the screen to turn on. Now, out of habit, I just rap repeatedly until it wakes. So, there is definitely a problem with the new screen that Samsung needs to address. If AT&T had a good selection, I would have picked something other than the S10. It is the only solid Android phone in my opinion, that ATT offers. I just can’t go back to Apple as they just try and lock you into their universe. I know that they make a good product, but it is not as good as most die-hard Apple fans believe it to be. Let’s face it, Apple could put their logo on a turd and you’d still have Apple fans lining up to buy it. Hopefully, Samsung will fix the above problems with the S11, or whatever they end up calling it or I just might end up owning an Apple Turd #2 someday. UPDATE: The battery life on this phone is very disappointing for a new phone. With each of my prior new phones it was always such a relief to get the improved battery time as compared to the aging phone it replaced. I remember my S9 would last more than a day. My S10 on the other hand no longer makes it the whole day. And I am not a heavy user at all. I charge the phone overnight and often have to charge it again when I get home from work in the evening. So I am not much better off than when I had my old aging S9. This phone has been a disappointment overall.